Crossroads – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
The UGC has conferred Autonomous status in July 2020,Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Degree awarded by KTU.
||"Ph. D Admissions Open"||
||"B.Tech admissions 2025 Rank List published"||
Home
>
Arts & Sports
>
Crossroads
Crossroads
Crossroads 2022:
The Logo launch for the techno-cultural fest Crossroads, was conducted on 19th March,2022 from 9 am to 2:30 pm. Gowri Lekshmi was the chief guest for that day. The music performance for the day was performed by the band, Moksha United.
Crossroads 2022, was conducted on 26,27 and 28 June, 2022 at Girideepam Convention Centre. Crossroads 2022 was inaugurated by Rev. Fr. John Varghese, Bursar and Dr. Abraham T Mathew, Principal by lightning the lamp on 26
th
June. On 27
th
, a talk show was conducted with renowned Malayalam film actor and director Mr. Basil Joseph. There were 17 competition events with 438 participants from various colleges and two non-competitions. All events were evaluated by eminent personalities from respective fields. On 28
th
, College Day was celebrated. The inaugural ceremony on 28
th
June, was presided by Bishop Most Rev. Dr. Thomas Mar Eusebius, Diocese of Parassala. The Chief guest was Mr. Unni Menon, playback singer. The college day included a proshow which was an interactive music performance by the very popular band Masala Coffee.
Akhil C – Event Head
Sidharth S Ashok – Finance Head
Rupesh R – Cultural Head
Litto K Lal – Program convenor
Shahin Sadath , Rhea Merin – Creative Heads
Ashwin SS – Marketing Head
Hritika  – Technical Head
Arjun sajeev – logistics Head
Salman Faariz – Publicity Head
Hrithik R -Discipline Head
Gautham Krishna, Rohit p kurup – Invitation Heads
Vasundhara G – control room , P.R.O
parvathy – Registration Head
Anupam shaji – Food and Refreshment
Crossroads 2020 – Logo Release
Crossroads 2019
more info crossroads 2019
Crossroads 2018
Crossroads 2018, the annual techno-cultural fest was held on March 3
rd
, 4
th
and 5
th
2018. Every edition of crossroads has a theme and we attempt to assimilate this into the very fabric of the fest. This time, the tagline is:
MANIFEST THE INFINITE
. It provides a platform for all college students to showcase their talents and also provides an arena to compete against the best in the country.
The various prizes and awards were distributed to the students during the prize giving ceremony after which the audience was treated to a vibrant and rich display of cultural programs performed by the students. The following two days were exciting and fun-filled, with over 17 Technical and 31 Cultural events. The event was organized and executed by the Crossroads Core Committee:
Ajesh – Events Head
Paul Mathew – Program Convenor
Akhil P. Nair –  Cultural Head
Jithin Jose – Technical Head
Rahul Mathew Jacob – Creative Head
Vyshnav Sunil – Marketing Head
Aaron George – Finance Head
Jithin Babu – Publicity Head
Jacob A. John – Logistics Head
Anand Joseph – Food and Refreshments Head
Suhail Nizam – Discipline Head
Aditya Raj – Invitation Head
Sree Saranyan – Control Room Head
Merlin M. Abraham – P. R. O.
Vidhya Sajeev – Registration Head
Crossroads 2017
Crossroads 2017, the annual techno-cultural fest was held from 31st March, 2017 to 2nd April, 2017 with the tagline:
Dream. Impel. Explore
. The event was inaugurated by Shri. Kunchako Boban, a well known cine artist, following which we had the College Day Celebrations. The various prizes and awards were distributed to the students during the prize giving ceremony after which the audience was treated to a vibrant and rich display of cultural programs performed by the students. The following two days were exciting and fun-filled, with over 15 technical and 30 cultural events. Around 25 colleges from different parts of the country participated for the same. The event was organized and executed by the Crossroads Core Committee:
Rahul Raj – Event Co-ordinator
Kannan Mahesh – Program Convenor
Vivek M. Jude –  Cultural Head
Harikrishnan Menon – Technical Head
Gokul Santhosh – Creative Head
Ananthakrishnan P – Marketing Head
Augustine B S – Finance Head
Abhishek Krishnan – Publicity Head
Anand Dhas – Logistics Head
Karan Kishor – Refreshment and Stalls Head
Swaroop Thomas – Discipline Head
Rejin Balachandran – Invitation Head
Vinay R Chandran – Control Room Head
Devika Ashok – P. R. O.
Pooja G S – Registration Head
The second and first year students stood with the third year students and together the various events were wonderfully conducted. It would not have been possible without the guidance and advice given by the senior students. Overall, Crossroads 2017 helped all the students work together and understand the importance of teamwork and mutual respect leading to the grand success of the fest.
Arts
Sports
Crossroads
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exam Notifications
New
M.Tech Admissions 2025
New
B. Tech Admissions 2025
New
MBCET e-bulletin
New