Summer Internship on Deep Learning – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
The UGC has conferred Autonomous status in July 2020,Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Degree awarded by KTU.
||"Ph. D Admissions Open"||
||"B.Tech admissions 2025 Rank List published"||
Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology
Thiruvananthapuram – 695 015
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Summer Internship on Deep Learning
About Internship
The Department of Computer Science Engineering at Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology is offering a summer internship for the students of the college. The internship will be for 4 weeks under the initiative of AI club. The internship starts on
24th June 2019
and ends on
19th July 2019
. During the 4 weeks internship, the students will be engaged on Machine Learning based or Deep Learning based project. In the first week, we will host a crash course to cover the basic concepts related to Machine Learning and Deep Learning. In the further weeks, the students will be engaged to work on an end-to-end Deep Learning project.
These are some of the broad areas on which you will pursue Deep Learning projects:
Object Classification
Natural Language Processing
Video Processing
The internship covers the following topics
Basics of Python(Open CV), Basics of Machine Learning, Regression, Basics of Artificial Neural Network, Basics of Deep Neural Network, Reccurent Neural Network, Natural Language Processing, Autoencoders, Basics of Convolutional Neural Network, Transfer Learning, Basics of Video Processing
Skill(s) required
: Proficiency in at least one coding language is necessary. Python is highly preferred, but not mandatory.
Who can apply
: Interested students (S3, S5 and S7) of all branches. The amount for 4 weeks will be Rs. 3000.
Applicants are required to fill in and submit the application form on or before 12 June 2019.
Please follow the registration link :
click here
for registration
Contact Numbers : Jesna Mohan – 9497467715
Ramjith R P – 9746314160
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exam Notifications
New
M.Tech Admissions 2025
New
B. Tech Admissions 2025
New
MBCET e-bulletin
New