Ms. Dhanya L K – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
The UGC has conferred Autonomous status in July 2020,Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Degree awarded by KTU.
||"Ph. D Admissions Open"||
||"B.Tech admissions 2025 Rank List published"||
Home
>
Computer Science & Engineering
>
Ms. Dhanya L K
Employee Code / ID No.
—–
Qualifications
M.tech ,PHD (doing at CUSAT)
Orcid ID
Dhanya L K (0000-0002-1383-4384) – My ORCID
Industry / R & D Experience
3 Years
Email ID
[email protected]
Alternate E-mail ID
[email protected]
Mobile No (Optional) / Intercom Extension No.
9447791479
Areas of Interest / Current Research
Natural Language Processing,Machine Learning ,Data science
Research,  Consultancy, Publication
Journals:
Integrating Hybrid Neural Networks and Domain-Specific Embeddings for Detecting Hate Content in Code Mixed Social Media Comments  ISSN: 2182-2069 / E-ISSN: 2182-2077 published in Journal of Internet Services and Information Security (JISIS), volume: 14, number: 3 (August), pp. 316-329.
Hierarchical Structure Generation for Malayalam using Hybrid Approach” by Dr. Elizabeth Sherly, Dr. L.K. Dhanya, and Dr. Rajeev R.R. was published in the International Journal of Application or Innovation in Engineering & Management (IJAIEM), Volume 4, Issue 9, in September 2015, spanning pages 108-112.
International Conferences :
“Hate Speech Detection in Asian Languages: A Survey” was published in the 2021 International Conference on Communication, Control and Information Technologies and published in IEEE explorer.
“Survey on the Design and Development of Indian Language Chatbots”, which was published International Conference on Communication, Control and Information Technologies  conference in 2021 and published in IEEE explorer.
“Comparative Performance of Machine Learning Algorithms in Detecting Offensive Speech in Malayalam-English Code-Mixed Data” was published in Advances in Distributed Computing and Machine Learning (2022)  and Published in Springer.
“Analysis of Machine Learning Algorithms for Predicting the Suitable Career After High School”, which was featured in the Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Communication, Computing, and Networking Technologies  and Published in Springer.
National conference :
“S-O-V based Parser for Malayalam using Hybrid Approach” with Dr. Rajeev R.R., which was presented at the UGC-sponsored National Conference on Recent Trends in Information Technology.
Ph.D Research Guidance ( Research Scholar, E-mail ID, Research Topic/ Tentative Thesis Tittle)
NO
Academic / Professional Outreach Activities
—–
Membership in Professional bodies/ organizations
ACM
Community Outreach Activities
—–
Awards / Distinctions / Rank / Other Achievements if any
—-
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exam Notifications
New
M.Tech Admissions 2025
New
B. Tech Admissions 2025
New
MBCET e-bulletin
New