B. Tech PEOs POs & PSOs – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
Home
>
Departments
>
Electronics & Communication Engineering
>
B. Tech PEOs POs & PSOs
B. Tech PEOs POs & PSOs
PROGRAMME EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES (PEOs):
PEOs are broad statements that describe the career and professional accomplishments that the programme is preparing the graduates to accomplish.
The graduates of the Programme will have a successful career as Professionals in Industry or as Entrepreneurs, encompassing a broad spectrum of areas related to Electronics and Communication Engineering.
They will be able to adapt to the changing needs of Industry and Academia through continuous learning and professional upgrading.
They will exhibit social responsibility in their pursuit for technical excellence.
PROGRAMME OUTCOMES(POs):
POs  describe  what students will be able to do at the end of the programme. POs are to be specific, measurable and  achievable.
Engineering Graduates will be able to:
Engineering knowledge
: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.
Problem analysis:
Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.
Design/development of solutions
: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.
Conduct investigations of complex problems:
Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.
Modern tool usage:
Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
The engineer and society:
Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
Environment and sustainability:
Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
Ethics
: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.
Individual and team work:
Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
Communication
: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
Project management and finance:
Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
Life-long learning:
Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.
PROGRAMME SPECIFIC OUTCOMES (PSOs):
Design Electronic Circuits and Systems for Communication, Monitoring and Control Applications.
Demonstrate the knowledge, in Electronics, Signal Processing, Embedded Systems and Communication Engineering, required for providing technical solutions to real world problems.
Vision
To be a Centre of Excellence in Electronics and Communication Engineering Education and Research for the service of humanity.
Mission
To provide quality Engineering Education and to carry out Research in the field of Electronics and Communication Engineering addressing the challenges faced by the society.
BoS
The People
Department Advisory Board
Facilities
News and Events
Activities
Conferences
Research and Consultancy
Workshops & Seminars
Placements
B. Tech PEOs POs & PSOs
Syllabus
Video Lectures
Time Table
Former HoDs