News and Events – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
Home
>
Departments
>
Science & Humanities
>
News and Events
News and Events
Upcoming Events
Past Events
The department is organising a three day FDP on ‘ Mentoring Matters: Strategies for Effective Academic Counselling” from May 19, 2025 to May 21, 2025 in the offline mode. For more details, please check the brochure below:
Loading...
Taking too long?
Reload document
|
Open in new tab
Ms. Lakshmi J.S., Asst. Professor(S & H) successfully defended her PhD thesis titled “Synthesis, low temperature sintering and characterization of nanostructured vanadium based ceramic oxides for their applications as LTCC materials” at the Department of Physics, University of Kerala, Karyavattom campus today. Hearty Congratulations to Dr. Lakshmi J.S.
The department is organizing a 5 day International FDP on ‘Engineering Next-Gen Materials’ in online mode. See below brochure for more details:
Ms. Preethi P. C. , Assistant Professor, Chemistry, Department of Science and Humanities successfully defended her Ph.D. thesis entitled
“SYNTHESIS, CHARACTERIZATION, STRUCTURAL STUDIES AND APPLICATIONS OF METAL CARBOXYLATES AND COMPOSITE MATERIALS”,
at the Department of Chemistry, University of Kerala, Kariavattom Campus, Thiruvananthapuram on January 11, 2024. Hearty congratulations to Dr. Preethi P C.
The Department of Science and Humanities organized a two day (May 20-21, 2022) seminar on the topic “Graph Theory and its Applications in Engineering” for faculty and researchers. The resource persons for the seminar were Dr. Abraham T. Mathew, Principal, MBCET, Dr. Indulal G,Associate Professor ,St.Aloysius College,Edathua and Dr. Aparna Lakshman, Asst. Professor CUSAT. The first session was taken by Dr. Abraham T. Mathew on “Introduction of Graph theory‘’. The second session was taken by Dr. Indulal on “Matrix representations on Graph”. The final, full day session was handled by Dr. Aparna Lakshman on ‘Graph parameters and labelling”. Coordinator: Ms. Sabitha S. Nair, Assistant Professor, S & H Department.
Vision
Sustained excellence as a leading Centre for Basic Sciences and Humanities education imbibing its essential concepts, thereby enabling the future Engineers to have a competitive edge with a strong sense of Values.
Mission
Enhance scientific temper among students in creating Technological and Engineering solutions and further develop analytical skills, soft skills, management skills and entrepreneurship skills, to mould them into better Professionals.
BoS
Institute electives
Minor Baskets
The People
Facilities
News and Events
Departmental Activities
Publications, Workshops & Conferences/Seminars
Former HoDs