B. Tech PEOs POs & PSOs – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
Home
>
Departments
>
Computer Science & Engineering
>
B. Tech PEOs POs & PSOs
B. Tech PEOs POs & PSOs
Programme Outcomes
Engineering knowledge:
Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.
Problem analysis
: Identify, formulate, research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.
Design/development of solutions
: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.
Conduct investigations of complex problems
: Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.
Modern tool usage
: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
The engineer and society
: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
Environment and sustainability
: Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
Ethics:
Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.
Individual and team work
: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
Communication:
Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
Project management and finance
: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
Life-long learning
: Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.
B.Tech - Computer Science - PEOs and PSOs
Programme Educational Objectives
Graduates will be successful professionals in Industries of core or interdisciplinary nature or entrepreneurs, demonstrating effective leadership and excellent team work.
Graduates will expand the horizon of knowledge through higher education or research, leading to self-directed professional development.
Graduates will demonstrate professional attitude and ethics while providing solutions in societal and environmental contexts.
Programme Specific Objectives
Apply Algorithmic Principles, Programming Skills and Software Engineering Principles to design, develop and evaluate Software Systems of varying complexities.
Apply knowledge of System Integration to design and implement computer-based systems.
Solve real world and socially relevant problems with the knowledge in recent and advanced Computing Technologies
B.Tech - Artificial Intelligence - PEOs and PSOs
Programme Educational Objectives
PEO1:
Graduates will be successful professionals in Industries of core or interdisciplinary nature or entrepreneurs, demonstrating effective leadership and excellent team work.
PEO2:
Graduates will expand the horizon of knowledge through higher education or research, leading to self-directed professional development.
PEO3:
Graduates will demonstrate competency in AI & ML, professional attitude and ethics while providing solutions in societal and environmental contexts
Programme Specific Objectives
PSO1:
To apply Algorithmic Principles, Programming Skills and Software Engineering Principles to design, develop and evaluate Software Systems of varying complexities.
PSO2:
To apply knowledge of System Integration to design and implement computer-based systems
PSO3:
To solve real world and socially relevant problems using AI and ML techniques
Vision
To be a Centre of Excellence in Computer Science and Engineering providing quality education and research for the betterment of the society.
Mission
To impart sound knowledge in theoretical and applied foundations of Computer Science and Engineering, and to train the students to solve real life issues to effectively define and shape life.
BoS
The People
Department Advisory Board
Facilities
News & Events
Workshops & Seminars
Research and Consultancy
Placements
Activities
Video Lectures
B. Tech PEOs POs & PSOs
Syllabus
Time Table
CSE Blog
Former HoDs