Get Involved – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
The UGC has conferred Autonomous status in July 2020,Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Degree awarded by KTU.
||"Ph. D Admissions Open"||
||"B.Tech admissions 2025 Rank List published"||
Home
>
Alumni
>
Get Involved
Get Involved
RENDEZVOUS 2023
RENDEZVOUS 2023 – MBCET Alumni Meet was held at Poojapura Ground, Thiruvananthapuram on 14th May 2023 at 5 pm. Around 100 members attended the Alumni Meet. The alumni meet was for all batches passed out from MBCET. It was a get together for them where they could meet their seniors and juniors. The event will also witnessed the honouring of 2008-2012 & 2009-2013 batches of MBCET. The Chief Guest was Ms. Simla Balasubramaniyan, 2009-13 EE.
RENDEZVOUS 2019
Rendezvous 2019 – Alumni Meet was inaugurated by Moran Mor Baselios Cardinal Cleemis Major Archbishop-Catholicos on the evening of 18th December 2019. The meeting started with a prayer song. The occasion was graced by more than 18 Alumni and their family members in the batch 2005-2009 batch.
Speaking on the occasion, Moran Mor Baselios Cardinal Cleemis Major Archbishop-Catholicos underlined and praised the achievements of Alumni of MBCET in all walks of life. He felt that it was a matter of great pride for MBCET that its Alumni are holding positions of responsibility in various governmental organizations, PSUs, private sectors, academic and research institutions and various other esteemed organizations. Many of them are successful entrepreneurs providing jobs to others as well. He also emphasized the need for further strengthening the linkage between the alumni and the present students.The inaugural session was also attended by our  Bursar Rev. Fr. John Vilayail, Assistant Bursar Rev. Fr. Raju Parukoor, Principal Dr. T. M. George, Deans, HODs, faculties and staff members of MBCET.
RENDEZVOUS 2017 – MBCET MEGA ALUMNI MEET on December 22
nd
, 2017
The MBCET Mega Alumni Meet was inaugurated by our former Bursar Rev. Fr. Wilson Thattaruthundill on the evening of 22
nd
December 2017. The meet started with a prayer song. The occasion was graced by more than 100 Alumni and their family members ranging across various batches from various parts of the world. The inaugural session was also attended by our new Bursar Rev. Fr. John Vilayail, Assistant Bursar Rev. Fr. Raju Parukoor, Principal Dr. T. M. George, Deans, HODs, faculties and staff members of MBCET.
Speaking on the occasion, Wilson achan underlined and praised the achievements of Alumni of MBCET in all walks of life. He felt that it was a matter of great pride for MBCET that its Alumni are holding positions of responsibility in various governmental organizations, PSUs, private sectors, academic and research institutions and various other esteemed organizations. Many of them are successful entrepreneurs providing jobs to others as well. He also emphasized the need for further strengthening the linkage between the alumni and the present students. The inaugural session was also attended by our new Bursar Fr. John Vilyail, Assistant Bursar Fr. Raju Parukoor, Principal Dr. T. M. George, Deans, HODs, faculties and staff members of MBCET.
Shibu Shajahan of 2003 – 2007 EC batch, the man behind the setting up of Middle East Chapter was also present. He explained the journey of the chapter over this one year with a short presentation. Scenes from the grand inauguration of the Middle East Chapter by Wilson achan and Dr. T. M. George at Dubai Marina on January 27
th
, 2017 in a luxury cruise ship, Alexandra Dhow Cruise. ‘MBCETAA Rocks On!!!’, an online event for our alumni which included a talent hunt and group selfie contest was a great hit and the winners were declared during Crossroads 2017. A potluck Iftar party was held in UAE on 16
th
June, 2017 across 6 Middle East countries. After that the Oman chapter, Qatar chapter, Bahrain chapter and Saudi Arabia chapter was also established. The first Onam celebration of the Middle East Chapter was held on September 30
th
, 2017 at Nellara restaurant, Qusais, Dubai. He also put a video of Sajna Samad of the first batch of MBCET (2002 – 2006) EC batch and she wished all alumni a merry Christmas and prosperous new year ahead.
Each alumnus of the second batch of MBCET (2003 – 2007) was presented with a memento on this occasion. Our Vice Principal, Prof. S. Viswanatha Rao delivered the vote of thanks to the alumni and their family members in the campus and appreciated their zeal to assemble here despite their busy life.
After that the College Senate members presented a painting of Wilson achan to him. Then a memento was presented to him by the alumni who had gathered there. The highlight of the event was that the College Senate paid a tribute to our Wilson achan through a video made by them.
The video ‘A Salute to the Spirit of Baselios’ is available at the following link:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_yg9xQRNjGI&feature=youtu.be
The program also went live on Facebook and is available at the following link:
https://www.facebook.com/sherry.george.796/videos/10214990919387337/
Cultural programmes by our students under Music Club, College Senate, faculty members and alumni of MBCET enhanced the serene atmosphere with pleasant music. Great bonhomie was observed everywhere with alumni reliving their old memories with their batch mates, seniors and juniors. Many of the current students were also seen interacting with their passed out seniors, imbibing values.
This was followed by a dinner arranged by the MBCET Alumni Association to all those who were assembled there. The get-together ended with the promise to meet again and everyone bid an emotional farewell to each other and their beloved alma-mater MBCET.
Alumni Meet – Rendezvous 2016
The Mega alumni Meet, was inaugurated by our Bursar, Fr. Wilson Thattaruthundill on the evening of 23rd December 2016. The meet started traditionally by a prayer song by Ms. Suparna of EC department.
The occasion was graced by more than 80 Alumni and their family members ranging across various batches from various parts of the country and outside the country as well. Speaking on the occasion, our Principal Dr. T. M. George underlined and praised the achievements of Alumni of MBCET in all walks/spheres of life. He felt that it was a matter of great pride for MBCET that its Alumni are holding positions of responsibility in various Government organizations, PSUs, Private sector, Academic Institutions. Many of them are successful entrepreneurs providing jobs to others as well. He also emphasized the need for further strengthening the linkage between the Alumni and current students. The inaugural session was also attended by various Deans, Registrar, HODs, faculties and staff members of MBCET.
The Vice Principal, Prof. S. Viswanatha Rao welcomed the alumni and their family members in the campus and appreciated their zeal to assemble here despite their busy life.
The Inaugural session was followed by cultural programmes by our students under Music club, faculties and alumni of MBCET who mixed the serene atmosphere with a pleasant music. Great bonhomie was observed everywhere with old students reliving their old memories with their batch mates, seniors and juniors. Many of the current students were also seen interacting with their passed out seniors and learning from their experiences. In all, the ambience was electric with people seen chatting and dancing in groups. For the first time, a video conference was arranged where by alumni in the Middle East were able to attend the event online.
The key highlight was the song from Poomaram-“Njanum Njanum ente aalum” sung together by our beloved Principal, Bursar and current faculty team of MBCET. The first batch of MBCET was presented with a memento on this occasion.
This was followed by a dinner arranged by the management to all those who assembled there. The Meet ended with promise to meet again and everyone bid emotional farewell to each other and their beloved MBCET.
About us
MBCETAA Contributions
Executive Committee
MBCETAA-Middle East Chapter
MBCETAA - North America Chapter
Distinguished Alumni
Get Involved
MBCETAA Awards
Youth Excellence Award
Stay in Touch
Contact Us
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exam Notifications
New
M.Tech Admissions 2025
New
B. Tech Admissions 2025
New
MBCET e-bulletin
New