AWSM Innovations – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
The UGC has conferred Autonomous status in July 2020,Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Degree awarded by KTU.
||"Ph. D Admissions Open"||
||"B.Tech admissions 2025 Rank List published"||
Catalyst Mar Baselios IEDC is proud to share the great achievement by the students of Mar Baselios College of engineering and technology in connection with Startup Yatra Kerala organized by Kerala Startup Mission.
Second Prize in Sustainable Startup category -Amal Jith, Ganesh, Sumesh and Aravind of S7 ME.
Third prize in technology startup category- Ani Sam Varghese
Third in social sector startup Akhila and Nowrin of S5 ECE
and Hero of Bootcamp Devi VS and Reshma of S7 CS
Congratulations to all the winners!
MBCETAA Middle East had joined a new association named All Kerala College Alumni Forum (AKCAF)in UAE,last year, to improve our networking opportunities. It consists of alumni from around 75 colleges and is the only approved expats volunteer group in UAE. A college should have atleast 100 alumni in UAE to register in AKCAF. They conduct major events every year.
One such event was conducted on 29 March 2019 called Kerala Campus League, A football tournament of 24 colleges. MBCETAA had registered as one of the teams with the name MBCETAA Knights FC. With Jackson Nelson (Joint Secretary of MBCETAA ME) as the Team Manager, and Ranjeep as the Captain, a team was formed a 13 members squad of our alumni and a few guest players also, as permitted by the rules and regulation. It had a special format of 7 players playing matches of 10 to 15 mins.
However, our team fought well and surprised everyone, when we won matches after matches, clearing the league rounds, Pre-Quarters, Quarters,Semi Finals and finally got into the finals..
We fought against a strong a team from Brennen College,Thalacherry. Although during the match our key striker, who had scored gold earlier, got injured ,we managed to finish the game at 0-0. Sadly,we lost to them in the penalty kickouts, but won the respect and admiration of AKCAF and its members. Being the first runners up of such an event is no ordinary feat. Not enough can be said about Jackson’s contribution as team manager, to this victory.
Congratulations to E-yanthra team for securing second position in National E-yanthra Robotics Competition held at IIT Bombay
Team members:
Abhijeet S4 CS
Bharat S4 CS
Gautam S4 CS
Joyal S4 EE
Congratulations team for bagging first prize in the Eden National Hackathon held at Marian Engineering College.
Team members:
Vignesh S4 CS
Rajat S4 CS
Rahul S6 CS
Team from MBCET wins First Prize in India Region ASCE Student Conference 2019 held in Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management and Engineering Mumbai
Team members:
Sreekesh
Rohit S.
Akshay A R
Congratulations to team code.inc for securing special appreciation prize in Smart India Hackathon 2019 held at IIT KHARAGPUR
Team members:
Devi VS S8 CS
Ajay Mohan S8 CS
Sreyas M Nair S8 CS
Reshma Mariyam Biju S8 CS
Amal Dev AS S8 CS
Nived Priyadarshan S6 CS
The MBTians’ involvement in the relief work for the flood affected people revealed their role as responsible citizens compassionate to those in distress and suffering. More than 600 students and faculty members worked as volunteers at the various collection points at
B-Hub
in the Mar Ivanios Vidyanagar, Women’s College, Trivandrum Airport, Nishagandhi Auditorium, SMV School, Cotton Hill School, , Corporation Office, Barton Hill Engineering College, and the R.P. Mall Kollam. They helped in sorting, packing, unloading the aircrafts, packing of materials, distribution and packing of Medicine and so on.
MBT’ians also assisted the relief work at the Relief camps at Chenganassery, Kuttanad, Pathanamthitta, Aranmula, Chengannur and Aluva Besides, Our students assisted the survey work in the flood – affected areas at Aluva.
Students contributed generously to the relief works, which amounts to Rs. 1, 28,000/-. The faculty and staff donated around 14.41 lakhs towards the rehabilitation activities.
The IEEE students and staff supported the KSEB by making 120 single supply panel boards to restore electricity connections as part of their
Mission Reconnect
Programme. They designed and fabricated the panels at the electrical workshop at the College and handed over the same to the KSEB Authorities. The letter of appreciation from the KSEB is cited below.
MBCET has been accredited by
NAAC with grade ‘A’ (CGPA: 3.13).
We are the only Engineering college in Kerala with NAAC ‘A’ grade and NBA accreditation for all B.Tech programmes.
The NAAC Peer Team visited the MBCET campus on 26, 27 and 28 September 2016 to assess the performance of the institution. The team was headed by
Padmashri Prof. Rajpal S Sirohi
, Former Director, IIT Delhi and Bharat Ratna Lokapriya Gopinath Bordoloi Chair Professor, Tezpur University (Chairman);
Dr. Amiyakumar Rath
, Professor of Computer Science, Veer Surendra Sai University, Odisha (Member, Co-ordinator) and
Dr. Vlias Karjinni
, Principal, Kolhapur Institute of Technology’s College of Engineering, Maharashtra (Member).
Video of NAAC Peer Team Visit
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exam Notifications
New
M.Tech Admissions 2025
New
B. Tech Admissions 2025
New
MBCET e-bulletin
New