Mar Ivanios Vidya Nagar – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
The UGC has conferred Autonomous status in July 2020,Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Degree awarded by KTU.
||"Ph. D Admissions Open"||
||"B.Tech admissions 2025 Rank List published"||
Home
>
Mar Ivanios Vidya Nagar
Mar Ivanios Vidya Nagar is one of the most beautiful hillocks in the city of Thiruvanathapuram with an extent of about 130 acres of land, housing a lot of educational and other institutions under the patronage of the Major Archdiocese of Trivandrum. This educational campus emerged out of the educational vision of the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church in the State of Kerala. The sprawling campus, blessed with natural beauty and learning ambiance, is studded with 18 centers of excellence in education.
The campus has been named ‘Mar Ivanios Vidya Nagar’ as a tribute to Archbishop Mar Ivanios, the founder of Mar Ivanios College
The campus has been named ‘Mar Ivanios Vidya Nagar’ as a tribute to Archbishop Mar Ivanios, the founder of Mar Ivanios College, the first educational institution in the campus. This prestigious college, founded in 1949, in its 64 years of vibrant existence and service has made profound contributions towards the field of higher education in the state, true to the vision of its founder Archbishop Mar Ivanios and true to the motto of the college “ Veritas Vos Liberabit” ‘Truth Shall Liberate You’.
Institutions
Mar Ivanios College
This prestigious college, founded in 1949, in its 64 years of vibrant existence and service has made profound contributions towards the field of higher education in the state, true to the vision of its founder Archbishop Mar Ivanios and true to the motto of the college “ Veritas Vos Liberabit” ‘Truth Shall Liberate You’.
View Website
Mar Baselios College of Engineering & Technology
MAR BASELIOS COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY (MBCET) inspires the aspirations of generations of knowledge-seekers. Dedicated to mould morally upright, socially committed and intellectually trained Engineers, the College strives to realize its dreams.
View Website
B'Hub
View Website
Bethany college of physiotherapy
View Website
Mar Gregorios College of Law
View Website
Mar Theophilus Training college
View Website
Sarvodaya Central Vidyalaya
View Website
Mar Gregorios Renewal Center
Sarvodaya Vidyalaya
View Website
St John’s Model Higher Secondary School
St Marys Malankara Major Seminary
JayaMatha Boys Home
St Alphonsa Hostel
Mary Matha Hostel
St Thomas Hostel
Mar Aprem Hostel
Highlights
Stands among the top tier Engineering College in Kerala
Training and Placement Unit for Placement support and Soft Skill Training.
Due importance to Arts & Sports. First runner-up in Kerala University Youth Festival competitions in 2017.
MOU with National, International Institution/MNCs such as Infosys, HLL, IBS and UST Global for Technology transfer and Faculty/Student Training.
Frequent National and International Conferences for dissemination of knowledge and ideas.
Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Centre for Incubation, innovation & Entrepreneurship.
Partners of VSSC for Testing Space Craft Electronic Packages
Digital Library with OPAC.
Vibrant eco-friendly green Campus, with Rain water Harvesting facility.
100 KW Solar Power Plant. Additional 100 kW under construction,
Many ISR Initiatives
Active student branches of Professional Societies.
Effective student advisory System.
Winners of National & International Project Competitions.
Multi-media/Smart Class Rooms & Seminar Halls
Nodal Centre for e-Yantra Robotics Lab, IIT Bombay
A host of proficiency Awards, Merit Awards…
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exam Notifications
New
M.Tech Admissions 2025
New
B. Tech Admissions 2025
New
MBCET e-bulletin
New