Dr. K Muraleedharan Nair – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
The UGC has conferred Autonomous status in July 2020,Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Degree awarded by KTU.
||"Ph. D Admissions Open"||
||"B.Tech admissions 2025 Rank List published"||
Home
>
About Us
>
Dr. K Muraleedharan Nair
Dr. Muraleedharan Nair K. secured B.Tech in Mechanical Engineering from TKM College of Engineering. He then joined the Central Power Research Institute (CPRI), gaining significant experience in the field of Energy Audit and Management. He obtained M.Tech in Propulsion Engineering from College of Engineering, Trivandrum. He further honed his expertise by pursuing Ph.D in Thermal and Fluid Science at the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur and dedicated six years to research and development, focusing on innovative projects. He secured the Best Paper Award at the 5th International and 41st National Conference on Fluid Mechanics and Fluid Power, held at IIT Kanpur in 2014. He is a KTU approved Ph.D supervisor and his research interests include advanced topics such as flow-induced oscillations, aero acoustics, and LES. He has several national and international conference and journal publications in these areas and extensive experience handling funded projects, most notably with the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) and Centre for Engineering Research and Development (CERD). He has been a key figure in various national and international conferences, serving on national advisory boards, organizing committees, and as a session and review chair. He was also the organizing chair of ICAMeO-2019 and serves as a subject expert on committees of central level organizations.
Employee Code / ID No.
10616061
Qualifications
BTech in Mechanical Engineering, TKM college of Engineering
MTech in Propulsion Engineering, College of Engineering Trivandrum
PhD in Thermal and Fluid science, Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur
Orcid ID
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0666-2668
Industry / R & D Experience
Industry-2years ,R&D-6 years,Teaching-15.5 years
Email ID
[email protected]
,
[email protected]
Alternate E-mail ID
[email protected]
Mobile No (Optional) / Intercom Extension No.
9074744097
Areas of Interest / Current Research
Flow induced oscillations,Aero acoustics,LES
Research,  Consultancy, Publication
Funded projects
ISRO,Gvt.India
CERD-Gvt.Kerala
24  publications
Ph.D Research Guidance ( Research Scholar, E-mail ID, Research Topic/ Tentative Thesis Tittle)
KTU approved supervisor
Academic / Professional Outreach Activities
Functioned as memeber of National advisory committee ,organizing committee, organizing chair, session chair,reviewer for different Internantional conferences ,subject experts for department promotion, ISRO
Member of National Advisory Committee AJWTF7-2018
Organizing chair-ICAMeO-2019,
Organizing Committee member, session  and review chair of  national and international conferences
Membership in Professional bodies/ organizations
–
Community Outreach Activities
–
Awards / Distinctions / Rank / Other Achievements if any
Best Paper award  in the 5
th
International and 41
st
National Conference on Fluid Mechanics and Fluid Power, IIT Kanpur,2014.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exam Notifications
New
M.Tech Admissions 2025
New
B. Tech Admissions 2025
New
MBCET e-bulletin
New