Activities – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
Home
>
Departments
>
Mechanical Engineering
>
Activities
Activities
Department Association (AUTOMATA) Activities
Report 2022-2023
Loading...
Taking too long?
Reload document
|
Open in new tab
VORTECHX’22
Department of Mechanical Engineering and AUTOMATA successfully conducted a one day technical fest, VORTECHX’22, on July 2nd 2022. The fest was inaugurated by Rev. Fr. Thomas Mukalumpurathu, Asst.Bursar in presence of Dr. Abraham T. Mathew, Principal and Dr. Rajesh T.N, HOD and Dr. K Muraleedharan Nair, Professor & Dean (Administration).
A variety of technical events like RC Obstacle race, CATIA workshop, Machine hunt, Cycle race, CAD competition, Pit stop, Lathe master and fun activities were organised. More than 100 students contested for the events mentioned above. Mr. Ajeesh M. V., Faculty Coordinator and Jibi John, Student Head coordinated the programs effectively.
ONE DAY FDP FOR FACULTY MEMBERS
Department of Mechanical Engineering and AUTOMATA in association with Autodesk India Pvt. Ltd. had organised a one-day workshop on 29-04-2022, Friday. The FDP included hands-on training and live case study using Generative Design with Fusion 360
Report 2021-2022
Loading...
Taking too long?
Reload document
|
Open in new tab
Report 2021-2022
Loading...
Taking too long?
Reload document
|
Open in new tab
Session on Mental Health
Automata organized a session by Dr Arun Nair, Doctor and Consultant, Perookada Govt hospital, on “Metal Health importance and opportunities for improvement” on  17 Feb 2020 for students of Mechanical Engineering at Senatus hall from 11.30am to 12.30pm. Ms Salma Asraff S6 ME-1 and Ms Sandra Ajayan S8 ME1introduced the guest. The session as co-ordinated by Automata staff coordinator Dr Nidhi MB, Associate Professor Department of Mechanical Engineering.
Alumni/Expert  talk
Automata in association with ISTE MBCET chapter conducted a session on ” Supply chain and Logistics” on 14
th
November 2019. Resource Person – Mr Navaneeth Narayanan, Manager SCM, Red Orange. He is also an Alumni of the department.
Agaaz interactive session
Aagaaz team from Infosys organized an “Interactive session” at Senatus hall on 12
th
November 2019 from 1:00pm to 2:00pm. Students from all departments participated in this interactive session. Mr Sreedhu and team from INFOSYS  handled the session. Automata team supported actively for the smooth conduct of the event in association with ISTE MBCET chapter.
Session on Ethics
ISTE MBCET, in association with Automata organised an Session titled  “ETHICS AND CAREER”, by Praveen S.K. Co-founder and Director PerformX Global and Leadership Trainer and Career Coach. The session was hosted at Mechanical Seminar Hall on 25t
h
October 2019 from 9:20am to 10:30am.
The Session was co-ordinated by the faculties Dr. Nidhi and  Mr Deepak B, Department of Mechanical Engineering. About 110 students from Mechanical 1 and 2 batches participated in the session.
ISTE MBCET CHAPTER in association with
AUTOMATA organized a Session on ‘Industrial Management leading to Entrepreneurship ’ on
13
th
FEB 2019 for eighth semester students
The Resource Person was Mr Gokul V Nath, CEO, Demustango Technology Private Limited.
Department of Mechanical Engineering has been constantly organizing several academic and extracurricular activities for the overall development of students and faculties of the department. The Department regularly organizes and participates in conferences, workshops, seminars and alumni get-together.
Automata, the Mechanical Engineering Students Association of MBCET plays an important role in the development of students as engineers by conducting various extracurricular activities. Automata aims to inculcate among its members an awareness and appreciation of various disciplines in not only Mechanical Engineering but also other relevant fields. Through its activities the association aims to be a common platform for all the students of MBCET in general and especially for the students of Mechanical department. AUTOMATA seeks to be an active organization of the Mechanical department at MBCET which promotes the students career interests. The association continually works for the overall development of the personality of the students in addition to their academic responsibilities. AUTOMATA give wings to those planning to fly high and achieve excellence in their field of interest.
Programs Organized
A project expo for B-Tech 1
st
year Mechanical engineering students was organized by AUTOMATA on 4
th
April 2018 at the Mechanical Department drawing hall. The Project expo had many mind-blowing design projects which was evaluated by Dr. Muraleedharan Nair, HOD ME, Ms. Nidhi M.B, APME and other faculties from the department. Around 25 projects was exhibited in the expo.
ISTE MBCET and AUTOMATA conducted a case study on 19
th
March 2018 by Mr Vishal G. Nair on supply chain for students of Mechanical engineering department. Students participated with great enthusiasm. The event was coordinated by Ms. Nidhi MB, Asst Prof Mechanical engineering department.
On 14th of March 2018, a talk was arranged for S8 Mechanical students by AUTOMATA on Energy Management and Energy Auditing. Mr. Johnson Daniel, Energy Technologist from Energy Management Centre (Kerala) and certified Energy Auditor Mr. B.V. Suresh Babu, conducted the lecture programme between 11.00 am till 1.00 pm. They have explained various aspects of Energy Management as well as Energy Auditing in industries. The questions asked by the students were appropriately answered by the team. The talk was coordinated by Prof. Venkatesh K. S.
An interacting session on “Basics of Research and technical writing” was conducted by  Automata in association with ISTE MBCET chapter on 17
th
July 2017. Dr. R. Sreedharan NIT Calicut, was the resource person. This event had a participation from students and faculties of all branches. The talk started by 2pm and was concluded by 4:30pm.Mrs.DivyaNA,Chairman, ISTE MBCET CHAPTER, gave a memento to our guest as our token of appreciation.
ISTE MBCET and AUTOMATA conducted a case study on 22
nd
February 2017 by Mr. Navaneeth, Project manager at Orange technologies, on supply chain management for students of Mechanical engineering department. The event was coordinated by Ms. Nidhi MB, Asst Prof Mechanical engineering department.
ISTE MBCET Chapter has conducted a two day workshop on Robotics, in association with IEDC & AUTOMATA on August 20-21, 2016.It enables students to have hands-on experience on robo-building.
A talk was arranged by AUTOMATA in association with ISTE-MBCET chapter on 17th August 2016, by. Dr. P. Kusumakumari, M.D, Professor & Head of Dept., Paediatric Oncology on Life Style Diseases. Around 120 students of Mehcancial department participated in the session and Dr. P. Kusumakumari urged students to control the dependence on junk food.
ISTE-AUTOMATA CHARITY drive  initiative by the students chapter as a helping hand to students of St Josephs school on 7th July 2015.A  payment of Rs 5000/- was offered to the students of the school from the contributions received from students and ISTE faculty.
ISTE MBCET student chapter and AUTOMATA in association with Energy audit cell organized a session on Energy Audit. S6 students of EEE and Mechanical attended the session.  Around 110 students participated in the session on 10/03/2015. The resource person was  Dr Hari Kumar, Energy Technologies and, Head Training division, Energy Management centre Kerala,  The session was co-ordinated by Ms. Jomol  of Electrical department and Ms. Nidhi MB of Mechanical Engineering department.
ISTE  in association with AUTOMATA  organized a talk by Mr Asok Kumar, General manager, Gulf ASIA,  on 16
th
March 2015. He spoke on industry opportunities and  motivated the young engineers.  104 students from sixth semester attended the session.  The session was coordinated by Ms Nidhi MB,(A/HoD ME), National council member ISTE and Mr Sreejith N K, Mr Deepak BS, Mr Roshan, Mr Ravessh, faculty members from Mechanical Engineering department.
MBCET has finally provided a platform for all the technical and automobile lovers to showcase their best.  The yesteryears’ vintage vehicles, amazingly and crazily modified cars and bikes and the most luxurious vehicles which one can only dream of were at display at OFFROADZ 2014.
The auto expo organized by AUTOMATA and Department of Mechanical Engineering in Mar Baselios College of engineering and technology, Nalanchira was held on
March 1&2, 2014
at Mar Ivanios ground, Nalanchira. With the theme “SAFETY IS IN OUR HANDS” a road safety campaign was held on February 23rd 2014 at Shangumugham beach which received a great response from the public.
The session was started with beach cleaning in association with department of district tourism. A great sand sculpture of hand holding a car was casted by Sri. Deepak Mouthalin. The evening session was inaugurated by Sub. Inspector of Police Valiyathura, Sri. Harikumar followed by a public interaction session on road safety awareness. All the people who gathered there lighted up candles around the sculpture in memory of their loved ones who lost their lives in road accidents.
The annual auto show Offroadz organized by students of Mechanical Engineering department was held on 23
rd
and 24
th
February, 2013. Dr Sreekanth K J and Mr. Roshan G K were the Staff coordinators for conducting the event. The fest was inaugurated by Col. Rakesh Sharma. A Display of arms and ammunitions by Indian army was also held on the same date.
Professional Societies
ISHRAE-MBCET
The Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ISHRAE).was founded in 1981 at New Delhi by a group of eminent HVAC&R professionals. ISHRAE today has over 17,633 HVAC&R professionals as members and additionally there are 10,695 Student-members. ISHRAE operates from over 42 Chapters and sub Chapters spread all over India, with HQ in Delhi.
It is led by a team of elected officers, who are members of the Society, working on a voluntary basis, and collectively called the Board of Governors.
More Information on Annual Reports
–
Click here
ISHRAE Objectives :
Advancement of the Arts and Sciences of Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Engineering and Related Services.
Continuing education of Members and other interested persons in the said sciences through Lectures, Workshops, Product Presentations, Publications and Expositions. Rendition of career guidance and financial assistance to students of the said sciences.
Encouragement of scientific research.
ISHRAE MISSION
To promote the goals of the Society for the benefit of the general public. Towards this objective, the Chapters of the Society participate in and organize activities to protect the Environment improve Indoor Air Quality, help Energy Conservation, provide continuing education to the Members and others in the HVAC & related user Industries and offer certification programs and career guidance to students at the local colleges and tertiary institutions.
ACTIVITIES
As part of its objectives to promote the interests of the HVAC&R Industry. ISHRAE is involved in various activities. ISHRAE reaches out to all its members and seeks their active participation & involvement in all the Events/Programs organized by the society.
PROGRAMS
ISHRAE conducts  Conferences ,Seminars ,Exhibitions ,Workshops ,Panel Discussions and  Product Presentations  throughout  the  country  with  both  national  and international participants to  discuss, promote  and display the state  of  the art technologies, systems, products and services.
STUDENT ACTIVITIES
ISHRAE student chapters in more than 150 engineering colleges encourage students to opt for careers in the HVAC&R industry. Knowledge dissemination is done through seminars.quiz contests like aQuest plant and site visits.
ISHRAE has launched “ISHRAE job junction” nationally. providing a platform for
leading employers to recruit candidates who are members from ISHRAE student
K-12 initiative of ISHRAE is focused on school students’ contests. in making them aware of subjects like. energy conservation and environmental concerns through drawing competitions.poster design.quiz and planting of trees. Emphasis on STEM education is stressed to inculcate a scientific fervor & help develop these young children into responsible citizens.
ISHRAE-MBCET STUDENT CHAPTER INSTALLATION CEREMONY
22
nd
February 3pm
ISHRAE-MBCET STUDENT CHAPTER installation ceremony took place at the campus on 22
nd
February. The session was attended by officials from ISHRAE, Head of Department of Mechanical Engineering, Staff and student members of ISHRAE, Mar Baselios College Of Engineering and Technology.
The ceremony was attended by the following ISHRAE Officials:
Prof. Udayakumar (Students chapter Chair – South, ISHRAE), Mr. K Ganeshan (Founder president, ISHRAE Trivandrum chapter), Mr. Krishna Kumar R (President Elect, ISHRAE Trivandrum chapter) and Mr. Asok Ayyappan (Program Chair, ISHRAE Trivandrum Chapter)
Core Committee:
Prof in charge: Mr. Vishnu Prasad K R
President-Sibi Ponnachan (S8)
Secretary – Salma Asraff (S6)
Treasurer – Anandu J (S6)
ISHRAE MBCET Chapter Activities
Workshop on HVAC & R at HVACO institute
On 10th January 2020, Trivandrum, 15 students from MBCET attended the workshop on basics of refrigeration and air-conditioning system and an introduction to latest trends in service sector. The sessions handled by experienced HVAC professionals from various sectors and the workshop was very informative to the students.
Industrial visit at Trivandrum International Airport
Technical talk and Industrial visit organized by ISHRAE Trivandrum chapter at
Trivandrum International Airport
on 26.10.2019. 22 students and 1 faculty from Mechanical Department, MBCET attended the same.
Industrial visit to VSSC, Thiruvananthapuram
Industrial visit to
VSSC,
Thiruvananthapuram was organized by ISHRAE-MBCET student chapter on 14.02.2020. 24 students and 1 faculty from Mechanical Department, MBCET attended the same.
ISHRAE JOB JUNCTION
17-18 January 2019, Chennai
The first program conducted by ISHRAE TRIVANDRUM CHAPTER at Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology was ISHRAE Job Junction. Job Junction is a placement program in which students are given opportunities to attend interviews conducted by prominant HVAC&R employers.  Student members from Department of Mechanical Engineering attended the initial screening test conducted by ISHRAE in which 26 students were qualified and invited for interview conducted at Loyola ICAM College of Engineering, Chennai. First stage of Interviews were conducted on January 17-18 and 12 students attended the same.
There were 11 employers from HVAC&R fields to recruit candidates.
Recruitment process for each company was separate and the students were allowed to register for a maximum of three companies per day. Recruitment process includes Group Discussion or screening test and Technical Interviews. More than 500 students from entire South India was present at the venue. 3 students from MBCET were shortlisted by the recruiters.
https://jobjunction.ishrae.in/
TECHNICAL TALKS:
On behalf of ISHRAE Trivandrum Chapter, two technical talks were conducted on 16th March 2019 at Hotel Horizon. The technical talks titled, “Basics of Air-conditioning systems & Types of Air conditioners” by Mr. Santhosh.K and “Cold Storage Basics” by Mr. Vijay Bhaskar
“Basics of Air-conditioning systems & Types of Air conditioners” by Mr. Santhosh.K was very effective and informative foe the students.
20 Student members from Department of Mechanical Engineering attended the technical talks.
ASME
The core committee member’s
Student Section Advisor : Mr. Bobin Saji George
The chapter office bearers for the year 2023-2024 are as follows
Aswin R B (Chair)
Sandhra Rose (Vice chair)
Akash Sreejith (Secretary)
Ashwin Mathew (Technical Head)
Mohammed Rawther (Organising committee Head)
A B Gouri (Treasurer)
The latest addition to the arsenal of organization affiliated with MBCET is the ASME MBCET Students’ Chapter, formed in the month of March, 2017. The American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) was formed by the students of the Mechanical Engineering Department with the objective of organising events that focuses on Mechanical Engineering. The chapter, headed by Student Section Advisor, Mr.Jagajith S, Assistant Professor, Dept. of Mechanical Engineering and Chairman,  Mr. Jayesh from S6 Mechanical , has over 100 members.
Core Committee Members
:
Student Section Advisor – Ranjith H (Dept of ME)
Chairman – Ajay Ebey George (S6)
Vice Chairman – Jibin Joy (S8)
General Secretary _ Rohit Radhakrishnan (S6)
Technical Head – Vaisakh V (S6)
Co Technical Heads – Abhishek Padmakumar (S6), Arjun M (S6)
Organizing Committee Head – Arva S Swami (S6)
Treasurer – Prathyush Moni (S4)
More Information on Annual Reports
–
Click here
ASME MBCET Chapter Activities
AUTONEXT
It was a proud moment for the Chapter to host a 2-day Automobile workshop from 9
th
to 10
th
March 2019 in coordination with TATA AUTONEXT. We had Mr.V.N. Pathak and Mr. Santhosh Reddy from Calcutta, who engaged with our students and imparted sound and practical knowledge. The workshop was attended by over 100 students from various colleges like NIT Calicut, TKM, RCET etc.
EFx
It also gives the Chapter privilege and honour to announce that our college was selected to host the ASME EFx which is a one-day tech fest held in 10 venues all over India. ASME EFx hosted by Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology was conducted on the 12th of October 2019.
Mr. Sujith, Head of Propulsion Research Lab at TERLS, ISRO, was the chief guest of the event. Dr. Rajesh T N, Head of the Department, Mechanical Engineering, gave the welcome address
ASMERISE
ASMERISE was a one-day networking event conducted exclusively for the first year students of MBCET on the 15th of February 2020. The event witnessed the participation of over 60 students from all branches. The event comprised of two interactive sessions and several games.
The morning session started with an interactive talk by Aaditya (exe-com of ASME), where he shared his experience of being in ASME, highlighting the benefits of being an ASME member. The afternoon session started off with a talk session by Mr. SANJU, alumni of MBCET.
The ASME MBCET Chapter continues to grow and expand its roots. The chapter is expected to reach heights in the future and looks forward to let its members comes out with flying colors.
For the First time in Kerala, ASME MBCET CHAPTER in association with The FMAE ( Fraternity of Mechanical and Automotive Engineers) organized a national level Training program – ‘ATV bike Design  and Development’; a 15 day  intense training from 4
th
to 17
th
of July 2017 that covers all the  aspects of automobile manufacturing, from design to fabrication.
The Outcome of this program is to make the participants aware of the road ahead of them and to give them prior experience of what they are going to encounter when they are in an industry.
The Chapter is yet again proud to represent the college at the international event ASME E-FEST Asia Pacific 2018 in Delhi, in the month of March (16
th
-18
th
), 2018. Student members, Harikrishnan Jayan Menon (S8), Bharath Lal (S8) and Edwin Denis Joseph (S8) represented the college in the Old Guard Competition.
The unit has also organised a Mind Controlled Autobot Workshop, the first of its kind at the college on 24
th
– 25
th
March 2018. The workshop was conducted by ROBOKART, Bangalore in association with IIT Bombay Innovation Cell. It was the first ever workshop in the history of all ASME chapters in Kerala to conduct a 3-in-1 workshop, i.e., Mind – Voice – Android App controlled Autobot.
It was basically an Arduino Board based design. A brainwave-reading headset which has only a single lead electrode (Neurosky mind wave headset) was used to collect the EEG signal. The EEG signal developed was then sent to the Arduino Mega to control the movement of the robot. This was indeed a novel experience for the students in making robot from scratch. These methods are one of the leading technologies under research hence the workshop without a doubt equipped the participants with necessary basic details to get started with the field.
A membership drive for the first year students was also conducted. An inspiring speech was delivered by the Vice Chairperson, Harikrishnan Jayan Menon, S8 on the growing need of the youth to think outside of the textbooks and explore on their own in order to develop the skills required for an engineer in today’s fast moving world.
The ASME MBCET Chapter continues to grow and expand its roots. The chapter is expected to reach heights in the future and looks forward to let its members come out with flying colours.
SAE MBCET
The Society of Automotive Engineers is India’s leading resource of mobility technology which primarily aims to incorporate automotive interests among student community. The SAE head office is located  at Chennai ;The collegiate chapter of Mar Baselios college of Engineering  and technology Thiruvananthapuram is 100
th
official Collegiate Chapter  in southern section. The Chapter consist of 90 student members and 2 faculty advisors from Mechanical Engineering Department . The official Inauguration of the chapter was held on  11
th
December 2021, Saturday and the details  are described below.
More Information-
Click Here
Industry-Institute Collaboration Initiatives
BIMLABs Collaboration with MBCET
Collaboration between MBCET and BIMLABs to provide skill training for the 2024 batch students. The orientation activities included an online session conducted by the CEO on June 22, 2023, and an offline briefing organized by the department placement cell on June 27, 2023, and coordinated by DR. Nidhi NB Placement representative of the Mechanical Engineering department.
Online Session by CEO:
On June 22, 2023, the CEO conducted an online session as part of the BIM and Skill Training Programme orientation for the 2024 batch. The session was scheduled for Thursday at 7:00 pm and aimed to provide important information about the program. The session covered various aspects such as the introduction to BIM, program objectives, structure, industry partnerships, and a question and answer session.
Offline Briefing by Department Placement Cell:
On June 27, 2023, following the online session, an offline briefing was held in the seminar hall by the department placement cell. All students of S6 ME 1 and ME2 attended the briefing at 9:15 am. The briefing focused on BIM lab orientation and provided essential information regarding the program’s timeline, requirements, support services, and upcoming sessions and activities related to the BIM and Skill Training Programme.
After the successful completion of the orientation activities, BIMLAB established a collaboration with MBCET. This collaboration aimed to enhance the learning experience and opportunities for the students in the BIM and Skill Training Programme. The details of the collaboration are as follows:
Objectives:
The collaboration between BIMLAB and MBCET aimed to provide students with access to advanced BIM technologies, industry-relevant projects, and internship opportunities. It aimed to foster a collaborative environment and promote research and innovation in the field of BIM.
Industry Exposure:
Through the collaboration, students would have the opportunity to work on real-world projects, interact with industry professionals, and gain exposure to the latest trends and practices in the construction industry. This exposure would help them develop practical skills and enhance their employability.
Workshops and Events:
The collaboration would include the organization of workshops, seminars, and events related to BIM, inviting industry experts and guest speakers to share their knowledge and experiences with the students. These activities would further enrich their learning journey.
Mentorship and Support:
BIMLAB, in collaboration with MBCET, would provide mentorship and support to the students, guiding them throughout the program, offering career counseling, and assisting with placement opportunities.
MoU with Skill Academy
A MOU is signed between Mar Baselios College of Engineering & Technology & Skill Academy to facilitate Professional Skills Development and End to End Job Preparation of students on November 08, 2022. The partnership enables internships opportunities, skilling, Aptitude practice test, Industry expert connect talk sessions, resume preparation, job opportunities etc under the initiative of MED CGPU team lead by Dr Nidhi MB. The online platform is free and can be used by any student of MBCET for placement preparation at their own pace.
We are now a member of CII (Confederation of Indian Industry) through which we intend to to establish an Industry-Institute Partnership cell. Through the cell we aims,
To bring industry closer to the academic and vice-versa.
To make the the technical courses more relevant to the industrial practices.
To generate resources in the form of industry supported projects and consultancy programs.
To encourage industry and relevant organizations for placement and training of students in industries.
Implementing R&D programs & sponsored joint R&D projects from industries inside the institute.
To conduct Industrial Training and Industrial Visits for the students and faculty.
CII
The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) works to create and sustain an environment conducive to the development of India, partnering industry, Government, and civil society, through advisory and consultative processes.
CII is a non-government, not-for-profit, industry-led and industry-managed organization, playing a proactive role in India’s development process. Founded in 1895, India’s premier business association has around 9000 members, from the private as well as public sectors, including SMEs and MNCs, and an indirect membership of over 300,000 enterprises from around 276 national and regional sectoral industry bodies.
CII charts change by working closely with Government on policy issues, interfacing with thought leaders, and enhancing efficiency, competitiveness and business opportunities for industry through a range of specialized services and strategic global linkages. It also provides a platform for consensus-building and networking on key issues.
Extending its agenda beyond business, CII assists industry to identify and execute corporate citizenship programmes. Partnerships with civil society organizations carry forward corporate initiatives for integrated and inclusive development across diverse domains including affirmative action, healthcare, education, livelihood, diversity management, skill development, empowerment of women, and water, to name a few.
Workshop and Conference Organized
Five days STTP on “Competency Enhancement in Mechanical Engineering”
The Department of Mechanical Engineering at Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology (MBCET), in association with the ISTE MBCET Chapter under ISTE Kerala Section, successfully organized a 5-day Short Term Training Program (STTP) from December 16 to 20, 2024. The program, coordinated by Mr. Deepak B. and Mr. Abhiram R. Nair, was attended by all technical staff from the department. It aimed to enhance their skills and competencies in mechanical engineering through a blend of theoretical and practical sessions. The program was designed to introduce participants to recent advancements and emerging technologies such as Machine Learning (ML), Artificial Intelligence (AI), Computer-Aided Design (CAD), and 3D Printing. It also aimed to improve productivity through the use of tools like Word, Excel, and PowerPoint. The program commenced with an inaugural session led by Dr. Nidhi M.B., Professor at MBCET and National Executive Council Member of ISTE, on December 16, 2024, at 9:30 AM.
A team of experienced faculty members from MBCET, along with a guest speaker, Mr. Kedar Mohan from CET, led the sessions. The program concluded with a valedictory session that recognized the participants’ efforts and contributions throughout the training. The STTP successfully enhanced the technical knowledge and practical skills of participants in mechanical engineering. It provided valuable exposure to modern tools and techniques, fostering improved efficiency and innovation.
A Six Day Hybrid Workshop on ‘Frontiers of Mechanical Engineering: Harnessing the power of AI, ML and IOT’ jointly organized by Department of Mechanical Engineering and ISTE MBCET Chapter, in association with ISTE Kerala Section and Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) was conducted on May 06-11, 2024. Topics included AI, Mechatronics and automation, data science and modelling, ML, IoT and Python. Participants visited IBS cetre in technopark on the 3
rd
day of the workshop as part of industrial visit. Dr. Nidhi M B, Professor and Ms Ruby Maria Syriac, Assistant Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering MBCET were the coordinators of the FDP.
Mechathon ‘ 23
ASME MBCET STUDENT SECTION in association with AUTOMATA  organized a Two Days Workshop on CFD package ANSYS Fluent on 20/10/2023 and 27/10/2023 , exclusively for S7 ME students. Students were given introduction  to mathematical modelling of engineering systems and hands-on training on Ansys Fluent.  An online quiz was conducted at the end of the session for evaluation. All 31 participants cleared the test.
Workshop on CFD
A 5 day workshop on “Application of Computational Fluid Dynamics in Fluid Flow Analysis” was given to Second year mechanical students from Nov 14 – 18, 2022. The workshop was organised by Dept of Mechanical Engineering in association with ASME and Automata, ME dept. The workshop was part of ‘Energon’ Series and the sessions were handled by Mr. Vaisakh S. Nair, Asst Professor, MED.
Workshop on ROBOTICS
A 5 day workshop on Robotics was given to Second year mechanical students from Nov 7 – 11, 2022. The workshop was organised by Dept of Mechanical Engineering in association with Catalyst, Mar Baselios IEDC and Automata, ME dept.
CERTIFICATION TRAINING PROGRAMME – AUTOCAD/ANSYS
The Department of Mechanical engineering-MBCET in association with CADD Centre organized a 40 Hour certified training programme in AutoCAD and ANSYS.
The training was conducted entirely by the CADD Centre by availing the department cad lab facility. The training programme is on par with any other programme offered by CADD Centre with add-on topics included as suggested by the department faculty.  68 students received certificates after the successful completion of their course.
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON APPLIED MECHANICS & OPTIMISATION, ICAMeO-2019
ICAMeO-2019
Department of Mechanical Engineering of MBCET has organised a 3 day International Conference on Applied Mechanics and Optimisation, ICAMeO-2019 in association with Universiti Teknologi MARA, Malaysia. As part of the inaugural ceremony, an Industry-Academia conclave was organised.  During the ceremony, a MoU was signed between Universiti Teknologi MARA and MBCET. The keynote speakers from industry representatives includes Dr. Chiranjiv Roy, Vice President-Data Science & AI, Nissan Digital India and Mr. Raghunath Nair, Deputy General Manager – Connected Cars,  Nissan Motor Corporation. Academic speakers includes Dr. David N V, Head of Research (International/Private Grant/VCSP), Dr. Saravana Kannan Thangavelu, Senior Lecturer, Mechanical Engineering, Swinburne University of Technology, Malaysia, Dr. Bipin Balaram, Amrita Viswavidyapeetham, Coimbatore, Dr. D. Bijulal, Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, GEC Bartonhill. 69 out of 101 papers were selected for oral presentation after a comprehensive peer review process and the selected papers will be published in scopus indexed AIP conference proceedings.
FDP  on Robotics
Five Days ATAL sponsored  FDP  on Robotics  was conducted by All India Council of Technical Education and APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University organized by Department  of Mechanical Engineering ,Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology dated from 8
th
July  2019 to 12
th
July 2019 full day in which 53 participants across Kerala participated for the same.
Short Term Training Program on OPTIMISATION TECHNIQUES FOR ENGINEERING APPLICATIONS
ISTE sponsored STTP on OPTIMISATION was organised by Mechanical Department of MBCET, Nalanchira, Trivandrum, Kerala during 17-21 July 2017. The guest of honour was Dr Saji Gopinath, CEO Kerala Start UP MISSION. . Dr Muraleedharan Nair K., HOD Mechanical Engg Dept, MBCET welcomed the gathering and Ms Nidhi. M. B., APME & NC ISTE and co-ordinator of STTP spoke on ISTE and about the STTP. Dr Sridharan, Professor, NIT Calicut was the resource person for Overview of optimisation covering the need and application. Fr Raju Parakoor, Assistant Bursar of MBCET gave away the memento to Dr Saji Gopinath. Prof K M Raju, Dean (Administration) felicitated the team and Ms Ruby Maria Syriac, APME & Co-ordinator of the STTP delivered the vote of thanks. There were 27 participants from various engineering colleges from various disciplines.
COMPETENCE ENHANCEMENT TRAINING FOR TECHNICAL STAFF
The department had organized a training program called ‘Competence Enhancement Training for technical staff’ on July 12-14
th
. The event was coordinated by Mr. Raveesh G and Mr. Vinod V. and has got participants from parent institution and other nearby institutions.
The training program has enlightened the participants with awareness about need for competency in today’s global scenario, enhancement in computer usage skills, cast iron recycling and CNC operations.
Short Term Training Program on “RECENT ADVANCES IN MECHANICS”
The Department has conducted a Short Term Training Program on RECENT ADVANCES IN MECHANICS sponsored by ISTE[Kerala Section] from 8th June 2015 to 12th June 2015. The program was inaugurated by Dr. B. Anil, former chairman, ISTE [Kerala Section]. The focused areas were Non Linear Vibrations, Perturbation Techniques, Mechanics of Biological Composites, Design of Composite Structures, Analysis of Complex Mechanical Systems. Sessions were handled by resource persons namely, Dr Anup S (IIST), Mr Bibin Balram (Amritha School of Engineering), Dr Ramesh Kumar (Rtd. ISRO), Ajith K Mani (Research Scholar, NIT-C). The coordinator of the event was Mr. Anoop MR
.
Short Term Training Programme on “Fundamentals of Hydraulic Machines & Heat Engines Lab”
The Department has conducted a Short Term Training Programme on “Fundamentals of Hydraulic Machines & Heat Engines Lab” from 2nd June to 6th June 2015. The course was handled by retd. Professors of College of Engineering Trivandrum and faculty members from the Department. The focused areas were Flow measuring devices, Hydraulic machines, Internal combustion Engines and Basics of Microsoft Word& Excel. Lab sessions was conducted were participants were given chance to have hands on experience on various machines and software lab. The coordinators of the event were Mr. S Jagajith and Mr. Deepak B
One day workshop on “Intellectual Property rights and Patenting procedure”
A one day workshop on Intellectual property rights and patenting procedure was conducted on 9th January 2015 at Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology, Nalanchira. The workshop was jointly organized by Department of Mechanical Engineering, Mar Baselios College of Engineering, Trivandrum & PIC-Kerala/ KSCSTE.
The session was inaugurated at 10 am. Welcome speech was delivered by Nidhi MB, AHOD, Dept. of Mechanical Engg, MBCET. Presidential address was given by Dr. T M George, principal MBCET. Dr. D A Damodaran former director of National Institute of Interdisciplinary Science and Technology was the chief guest of the day. During his inaugural address he talked about the evolution of IPR law in India, Importance of Indian IPR laws and its international acceptance.
Shri V P Balagangadharan, Former Dr. Bhramaprakash scientist VSSC gave the keynote address. The first session was handled by Shri V P Balagangadharan in which he talked about the different patent possibilities. Next two sessions were handled by Shri Afsar S, Patent Attorney and partner, Krishna and Saurastri associates Bangalore in which he talked about Patentability criteria and patent searching procedures. Concluding session was handled by Shri Safikh S, Tehnical officer (IPR), KSCSTE, Trivandrum in which he talked about the support provided by PIC- Kerala for IPR protection. The coordinator of the event was Mr. Deepak B.
National Conference on Futuristic Technologies In Mechanical Engineering (NCFT14)
Department of Mechanical Engineering of Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology has organized its first ever national conference titled Futuristic Technologies In Mechanical Engineering on 22 and 23 August 2014. The conference was well attended by eminent academicians, faculty members and students from reputed technical and educational institutions from different parts of the country and representatives of governmental bodies and industry.
In eleven technical sessions under five different tracks titled Machine Design, Computer Aided Design, Thermal Science, Production Engineering and Metallurgy and Material Science held over the two days, 48 papers were presented at the conference. The conference was inaugurated by the Chief Guest at the inaugural function, Dr.K.Sivan, Director, LPSC on 22nd morning. In his inaugural address, he lauded the importance of technologies and the inceptions an engineer should have in the development of every country.
Dr. T.M.George, Principal and Chairman NCFT14 , released the Conference Proceedings on the occasion. and shared his views on Futuristic Technologies In Mechanical Engineering briefly. Dr.Y.V.K.S.Rao, Organising Secretary NCFT14, presided over the function and delivered the presidential address. Prof. K.M.Raju, Prof.K.Gisuthan and Dr.C.P.Ragunadhan Nair have  shared their ideas about the topic. Rev.Fr.Wilson Thattaruthundil has handed over the momento to the chief guest and the keynote speaker Dr.K.Sivan.
MOOC Course/Workshop/FDP/Conference Attended
Mr. Vaisakh S Nair,
Asst. professor, attended Five days online FDP on ‘ Recent Trends in Green Energy Engineering’ organized by college of Engineering Perumon from 16
th
to 20
th
December 2024.
Mr. Deepak B,
Asst. Professor, attended Six days ATAL FDP on ‘Energy, Sustainability and Climate Resilience in the Modern World’, organized by Vidya Academy of Science and Technology from 02
nd
to 7
th
December 2024.
Dr. Muraleedharan Nair, Dr. Rajesh TN and Dr. Vinod V,
Professor, attended Six days FDP on ‘Robotics and Industrial Automation’, organized by Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology from 4
th
-9
th
November 2024.
Mr.R oshan George Koshy
, Asst. Professor, attended Six days FDP on ‘Robotics and Industrial Automation’, organized by Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology from 4
th
-9
th
November 2024.
Mr. Deepak B, Mr. Ayswer A S, Dr. Arvind P, and Mr. Melvin Jacob
Asst. Prof, attended Six days FDP on ‘Frontiers of Mechanical Engineering: Harnessing the power of AI, ML and IOT’ organized by Dept. of Mechanical Engineering, MBCET from 6
th
-11
th
May 2024.
Dr. Nidhi M. B
., Professor, MED attended a 5-day online Faculty Development program on ‘Advances in Graphene Science and Technology’ organised by Department of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering (CET), Trivandrum during January 15 – 19, 2024.
Dr. K. Muraleedharan Nair, Dr. Remil George Thomas, Mr. Ayswer A. S., Mr. Roshan George Koshy, Mr. Ajeesh M. V., Ms. Ruby Maria Syriac, Mr. Vaisakh S. Nair and Mr. Alen K. Johnson
attended a 5 day online Faculty Development program on ‘Developments in Renewable Energy Systems and Technologies’ organised by Department of Mechanical Engineering, Musaliar College of Engineering & Technology, Pathanamthitta during January 8 – 12, 2024.
Dr. Nidhi M. B., Ms Ruby Maria Syriac
and Ms. Aislin C. from Dept of Mechanical Engineering, MBCET had attended the ‘energy awareness workshop – women oriented’ awareness session, organised by Energy management Centre (EMC), Dept of Power, Govt. of Kerala on Oct 07, 2023.  The classes were taken by officials from Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) and Asian Devpt Bank (ADB).
Dr Rajesh T. N. and Dr. Nidhi M. B.,
Associate Professors, ME Dept attended a 5 days Faculty Development Program on ‘An insight into EV Design & Development’ sponsored by Directorate of Technical Education, Kerala on 30th January – 3rd February, 2023 at Government Engineering College, Barton Hill, Thiruvananthapuram.
Dr. Nidhi M. B.
, Associate Professor, ME Dept and following students of S3 Mechanical (Aaron Koshy Boby, Ananth P Nampoothiri, Bharath Suresh Appukuttan Nair, John Sony Kurian) and S5 Mechanical (Akash Sreejith Chandra, Ashwin Mathew, Muhammed Sufiyan Al Basith) had attended as delegates at the Huddle Global, a Tech Startup event organised by Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) at The Raviz Kovalam on December 15 & 16, 2022.
Dr. Nidhi M. B.,
Associate Professor, ME Dept had participated in “INCUBATION MANAGEMENT VIRTUAL TRAINING PROGRAM (2ND EDITION)” conducted by Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India Ahmedabad (under the CrAdLE initiative) during December 01, 2022 to December 04, 2022.
Dr. Nidhi M. B., Associate Professor, MED, attended as Panelist on Women in Academia and Industry in the 2nd IEOM (Industrial Engineering and Operations Management) India International Conference held from August 16-18 2022. The event includes keynotes, plenaries, global engineering education, global business management, global supply chain, industry solutions, panels, and technical sessions.
Mr. Bobin Saji George, Assistant Professor, MED participated in 2022 IEEE World Conference on Applied Intelligence and Computing (AIC 2022) June 17-19, 2022 as Program Committee member and Reviewer. The Conference proceeding is scheduled to be included in IEEE Xplore.
Mr. Deepak B. S
.
, Asst. Professor, MED has participated in the TEQIP- sponsored Faculty Development Programme on PRESSURE VESSELS AND PIPING organized by Dept of Mechanical Engineering. Govt Engineering College Barton Hill, Thiruvananthapuram Scheduled from May 9-13, 2022.
Dr. Deepak G. Dilip, Asst. Professor, MED has successfully completed 50-hours Live Online Faculty Development Program on “Applied Machine Learning, AI and its Applications using Python” from April 18 to May 02 2022 organised by EduxLabs in association with E-cell IIT Hyderabad
Deepak G Dilip has attended 32nd Annual State Faculty Convention of ISTE Kerala Section held at Trinity College of Engineering, Trivandrum on 19
th
February 2022.
Deepak G Dilip has attended three days KTU sponsored online FDP on “ NANOFLUIDICS: THEORY, EXPERIMENTATION, COMPUTATION
AND APPLICATIONS” organized by Department of Mechanical Engineering SaintGits College of Engineering from 13th to 15th September 2021.
Roshan George Koshy s attended three days KTU sponsored online FDP on “ NANOFLUIDICS: THEORY, EXPERIMENTATION, COMPUTATION
AND APPLICATIONS” organized by Department of Mechanical Engineering SaintGits College of Engineering from 13th to 15th September 2021.
Deepak BS has attended three days KTU sponsored online FDP on “ NANOFLUIDICS: THEORY, EXPERIMENTATION, COMPUTATION
AND APPLICATIONS” organized by Department of Mechanical Engineering SaintGits College of Engineering from 13th to 15th September 2021.
Vaisakh S Nair has attended five days AICTE sponsored FDP on “ Inculcating Universal Human Values in Technical Education” from 16
th
to 20
th
August 2021.
Mobin M Mathew has attended five days AICTE sponsored FDP on “ Inculcating Universal Human Values in Technical Education” from 26
th
to 30
th
July 2021.
Melvin Jacob has attended five days AICTE sponsored FDP on “ Inculcating Universal Human Values in Technical Education” from 26
th
to 30
th
July 2021.
Alen K Johnson has attended KTU sponsored online FDP on “Statistical Tools and Techniques for Scientific Research” organized by department of Mechanical Engineering Amal Jyothi College of Engineering from 26
th
to 28
th
July 2021.
Mr. Abhiram R Nair has attended KTU sponsored online FDP on “Statistical Tools and Techniques for Scientific Research” organized by department of Mechanical Engineering Amal Jyothi College of Engineering from 26
th
to 28
th
July 2021
Mr Vishnu Prasad K. R
. has attended a Six-day faculty development programme on “Teaching Engineering Standards and Intellectual Property Rights to Academicians” organized by the Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Institute of Technology, Warangal, February 13-18 2020.
Ayswer A S, Dr. Deepak G Dilip, Mr. Bobin Saji George
has participated in APJAKTU Sponsored FDP on “Industrial Automation” organized by Department of Mechanical Engineering & Bosch Rexroth CET Centre of Excellence in Automation Technologies, College of Engineering Trivandrum from 30th December 2019 to 04th January 2020.
Bobin Saji George
participated in 2nd International Mechanical Engineering Congress IMEC-19, held at National Institute of Technology, Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu, November 29 – December 01, 2019.
Rupesh S
. has completed an NPTEL course on Aircraft Propulsion, July-October 2019, organized by IIT Guwahati.
Hari Venkit and Mr. Ayswer A. S.
has successfully completed NPTEL course on “Introduction to Manufacturing Process” in Nov 2019 (12 Weeks) conducted by IIT Madras
Mr Vishnu Prasad K. R
. has completed NPTEL-AICTE FDP on Nano technology, Science and Applications (July-Sept 2019)
Nidhi M B
has attended one day workshop on AI for organizational Productivity, 16 Jan 2020, organized by IIIE at Hotel Appolo Dimoro.
Dr. Nidhi M B
has attended 6 day FDP on Creating International Visibility through high Quality Research, conducted by CET during Jan 20-25, 2019.
Ms. Ruby Maria Syriac, Mr. Jagajith S. and  Mr. Vishnu Asok J. S attended a FDP on Recent Advances in NanoTechnology at GEC Idukki from 18-22nd December 2017.
Mr. Premchand V. P  attended four day workshop on “Self Awareness & Integral Education, SAIE 2017” at GEC Barton Hill from 22-25th November, 2017.
Dr. K Muraleedharan , and Mr.  Unnikrishnan G attended a FDP on Special Topics in Fluid dynamics at IIT Madras from 09-14 October 2017.
Mr. Jagajith,, Mr. Deepak,B and Mr. Vishnu Prasad K.R attended a FDP on Recent Trends in Utilization Of Renewable and Sustainable Energy in Engineering applications at TKM college of Engineering, Kollam from 6-11 February 2017.
Ms. Ruby Maria Syriac, Mr.  Kedar Mohan, Mr. Bobin Saji George , Mr. Vishnu Asok. attended FDP on Product Development of an IOT device at MBCET from 26 – 28 July 2017.
Mr. Hari Venkit attended short term training Programme on “Robotics & Automation” at CET from 3 -7 July 2017.
Mr. Roshan George Koshy attended FDP on  Research Methodology and Mathematical Approaches for Engineering Research at MCET, Trivandrum from 3 -7 July 2017.
Mr. Roshan George Koshy  and Mr. Nirmal M. S. attended FDP on  Optimization Techniques for Engineering Applications at MBCET from 3 – 7 July 2017.
Ms. Nidhi M.B attended One day workshop  on engineering Approach to Community Development Projects at Trivandrum on 27 June 2017.
Mr. Rupesh S, Mr. Vishnu Prasad K.R.,  Mr. Raveesh G., Mr. Premchand V. P. and Mr. Emmanuel Ruben Gilbert attended  Faculty Development Programme on ACL organized by IIT Madras from 21 – 23 April 2017.
Mr. Unnikrishnan G  attended FDP on  Application of Mathematics in Engineering TKM college of Engineering, Kollam from 23-28 January 2017.
Mr. Remil George Thomas,  Mr. Hari Venkit, Mr. Anoop M R and Mr. Bobin Saji  attended a Workshop on Recent Advances in Tribology and Surface Engineering” at Saintgits college of Engineering, Kottayam from 19 – 21 December  2016.
Mr. Deepak B, Mr. Roshan George Koshy, Mr. Vinod V, J Mr. agajith S and Mr. Raveesh G attended FDP on  Essential Mathematics for Engineering organized by KTU from 29 November- 3 December  2016.
Mr. Roshan George Koshy, Mr. Vishnu Prasad K.R,  Mr. Jagajith, and  Mr. Deepak B attended FDP on  Combustion Theory And Computational Techniques at TKM college of Engineering, Kollam from 16-21 November 2016.
Mr. Anoop M. R, Mr. Deepak B, and  Mr. Jagajith S. B attended FDP on  Industrial Tribology and its Recent Advances in Engineering at NIT Calicut from 21-23 October 2016.
Mr. Deepak G Dileep attended FDP on  “An Advanced Introduction to the Finite Volume Methods in Computational Fluid Dynamics” at IIT Indore from 05-09 September  2016.
Mr. Bobin Saji George attended a  four week FDP on Use of ICT in Education for Online and Blended Learning organized by IIT Bombay from February to March 2016.
Deepak G Dileep attended a FDP on Recent Advances in Finite Element Methods to Solve Complex Engineering Problems at NIT Calicut from 19-25 July 2016.
Premchand V P, Ms. Ruby M.S, Mr. Sujith S and Mr. Ranjith H attended a FDP on Experimental stress analysis at GEC Barton Hill from 19-23 July 2016.
Raveesh.G attended a National workshop on IPR and its Enforcement  at Trivandrum from 14 – 15 July 2016.
Unnikrishnan G attended a FDP on Research Methodology in Fluid Mechanics at  Amrita University from 14- 16 July  2016.
Nidhi M.B attended a Workshop on Modern Trends on Electronic Waste Management at GEC Barton Hill from 11-13 July 2016.
Ayswer A S attended a FDP on Modern Trends on Electronic Waste Management at GEC Barton Hill from  11- 13 July 2016.
Vinod V attended a FDP on “A course on Nonlinear Control System Design (nCSD)” at IIST, Trivandrum on June 2016.
Nidhi M.B attended a One day workshop on Research writing: Technical and Language Aspects at NIT Calicut on 28 Feb 2016.
Sujith S attended a One Day Workshop on Differential Equations and Fourier Series – Some Applications at MBCET on 14  January 2016.
Nidhi M.B,and Mr. Bobin Saji George attended a Workshop on Design & Engineering at GEC Barton Hill from 24-27 November 2015.
Raveesh G attended a One day Workshop on Teaching and Learning  at MBCET on 7 December  2015.
Ayswer A S, Mr. Hari Venkit and Mr. Anoop M R attended an FDP on Advanced Tool boxes in MATLAB for optimization at  CET 25-27  Nov 2015.
Ayswer A S, and Mr. Anoop M R attended a FDP on Introduction to MATLAB at MBCET on 24  Nov 2015
Nidhi M B attended an FDP on Self awareness and integral Education (SAIE) at GEC Barton Hill from 24-27 Nov 2015.
Rupesh S attened an FDP on IEEE Authorship workshop, “How to publish a Technical Paper with IEEE organised by IIT Madras non 20 Aug 2015.
Sujith S attended one day workshop on Finite Element Structural Analysis Software FEAST organized at MBCET on 30 December 2015.
Hari Venkit and Mr. Remil G.T attended a short term training program on Optimization Techniques for Engineers and Scientists at LBS college of Engineering on July 2015.
Rupesh S attended a conference on National Meet for research scholars in Mechanical Engineering at NIT Calicut from 3 – 4 July 2015.
Roshan George Koshy and Ms. Ruby M.S attended a FDP on Finite Element Analysis using ANSYS at RIT Kottayam from 22 – 26 June 2015.
Nidhi M B attended a FDP on Introduction to Sustainable Engineering at CET from 18-20 June 2015.
Ajeesh M.V, Mr. Anoop M, Mr. Aravind P, Mr. Ayswer A.S, Mr. Deepak B,  Mr. Hari Venkit, Mr. Jagajith S, Mr. K Gisuthan, Mr.  K .M Raju,  Mr. K.S Venkitesh,  Mr. Kedar Mohan,  Ms. Nidhi M.B, Mr. Pradeep M,  Mr. Rajesh T.N, Mr. Remil G.T,  Ms. Ruby M.S,  Mr. Unnikrishnan G,  Mr. Vinod V, and Mr. Vishnu Prasad attended a FDP on Recent Advances in Mechanics at MBCET from 8-12 June 2015.
Nidhi M B attended workshop on HLL industry internship at HLL, Trivandrum from 4-11 May 2015.
Rupesh S attended a FDP on Advances Mathematical Approaches in Chemical and Environmental Engineering Using MATLAB at NIT Calicut from 28 February – 1 Mar 2015.
Roshan George Koshy attended a FDP on Microfluidics : Fundamentals, Modeling and Applications at CET from 28 January – 2 February 2015.
Hari Venkit, Mr. Deepak B, Mr. Raveesh G , Mr.  Roshan G Koshy,  Ruby M.S,  Mr. S Jagajith,  Mr. Sujith S, and Mr. Vinod V  attended a Workshop on Intellectual Property  Rights & Patent Procedures at MBCET at 9 January 2015.
Rajesh T.N, Mr. Unnikrishnan G, and Mr. Vinod V attended a FDP on Introduction To CFD And Its Applications on CET from 1-8 December 2014.
Roshan G Koshy attended a FDP on Robotics And Industrial Automation at CET from 1-6 December 2014.
Pradeep M and Mr. Sujith S attended a FDP on Design Realisation and Testing of Advanced Composite and Sandwich Structures at SCT college of Engineering from 27-29 November 2014.
Sreejith N.K attended a FDP on “Entrepreneurship” at PSG college from 17-28 November 2014.
Arvind p and Mr. Vishnu Prasad K R attended FDP on “Pedagogy For Effective Use Of ICT in Engineering Education organized by IIT Delhi.
Ranjith H attended Workshop On Microteaching at GEC Barton Hill from 20-21 October 2014.
Sreejith N.K attended 3 Day Workshop on Advanced Materials And Modern Manufacturing Technologies at Saintgits college of Engineering from 25-27 Sept 2014.
Deepak B, Dr. K.J Sreekanth, Mr. Hari Venkit,  Mr. Kedar Mohan,  Ms. Nidhi M.B,  Mr. Pradeep M,  Ms. Resmy J Devan, Mr. Roshan G Koshy,  Mr. Shyam Sundar,  Mr. Sreejith N.K,  Mr. Unnikrishnan G, Mr. Kedar Mohan and Mr. Vinod V attended two weeks ISTE Workshop on FLUID MECHANICS at MBCET from 20-30 May 2014.
Pradeep M attended Coordinators workshop on Fluid Mechanics at IIT Kharagpur on March 2014.
Hari Venkit attended Workshop on Mechatronics-Status and Challenges at CET from 2- 7 December 2013.
Mr. Ajeesh M.V, Ms. Nidhi M.B,  Mr. Pradeep M,  Mr. Roshan G Koshy, Ms. Ruby M.S,  Mr. Sreejith N.K, Mr.  Unnikrishnan.G attended two week ISTE Workshop on Engineering MECHANICS at MBCET from 26 November – 6 December ,2013
Internship
Batch Internship Status
2021 – 2025 Batch: 96.07
2020 – 2024 Batch: 100%
2019 – 2023 Batch (KTU): 49%
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME at JAYAMATHA INDUSTRIAL TRAINING INSTITUTE
The Mechanical Engineering Department of Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology, in association with Jayamatha Private ITI in collaboration with Yamaha, is providing a 5-day internship program for students of the Department of Mechanical Engineering. Students get hands-on experience on different aspects of an automobile through this internship. A total of 105 students in four batches have attended the workshop since 2021.
The first batch comprised 35 students of the 2020-24 batch, which started on 09/11/2021 and ended on 15/11/2021.
The second batch started on 25/04/2022 and ended on 29/04/2022 with 30 students from the 2021-25 batches.
The third batch consisted of 20 students from the 2022-26 batches, which started on 17/10/2023 and ended on 21/10/2023.
The fourth batch consisted of 20 students from the 2023-27 batch, which started on 24/06/2024 and ended on 28/06/2024.
Community Extension Activities
“Aardram”, an initiative by the mechanical engineering students of Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology (MBCET), exemplifies the department’s commitment to social outreach. This student-led group transcends traditional academic boundaries, fostering a spirit of compassion and civic responsibility among future engineers. Their impactful journey began with a significant beach clean-up drive at Vettucaud, transforming a polluted natural space and creatively repurposing collected waste, demonstrating practical sustainability. From environmental stewardship to community support, Aardram showcases how the Mechanical Engineering department is nurturing not just skilled professionals but also socially conscious citizens. Their efforts serve as a powerful testament to the positive change that can be achieved when academic pursuits are coupled with a dedication to societal betterment.”
Read More….
Career Guidance
The department career guidance cell is constantly striving to enhance the employ ability of our students. The cell is in constant touch with the industries and research institutes and consultant monitoring their requirements and changes. In view of the same the cell is organizing various training sessions and invited talks which aims to improve the skills of our students.
INVITED TALK
A talk was conducted for the second year B.tech students by ‘Parvath Tech’ on March 11, 2025.The elaborated on EMS Test Bench, various Control units and control systems, ECU, Sensors and Actuators.
Department Placement cell and dept association Automata organised a talk on the topic ‘Opportunities in Administrative Services’ to the final and pre final year students on August 14, 2024. The talk was organised by Dr. Nidhi M B, Professor, MED. Resource person: Mr. A. U. Prasad, Head of Top Notch IAS.
A talk was organised by ME association AUTOMATA to final year Mechanical students by Mr. Vishnu B. Valsan (Senior Consultant at Ernst & Young) in the topic ‘Fraud Detection and Application’ on March 27, 2023 at Pascal Hall. Faculty Advisor Dr. Nidhi M. B. coordinated the event.
A talk was organised by ME association AUTOMATA to final year Mechanical students by Mr. Sai Ganesh (Business Consultant at Accenture) in the topic ‘Data Analytics’ on March 15, 2023. Faculty Advisor Dr. Nidhi M. B. coordinated the event.
A talk was organised by Placement cell, ME Dept for the final year students by a team from Air India on ‘Opportunities in aviation industry’ on February 13, 2023.
There was a student interaction with an industry expert about the scope of mechanical engineers, followed by a faculty interaction about new horizons in mechanical engineering and association with areas of IOT and Digital engineering, on February 08 2023. Mr Sumesh Sasikumar, Engineer, IOT & Digital Engineering business unit, Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) was the resource person. Faculty Coordinator: Dr Rajesh T. N.
A Session on Career Opportunities was organized by the Dept. of Mechanical Engineering on November 30, 2022. The session was handled by Mr. Jayaram V, HR Head & Advisor to CGP Career Avenues.
TRAINING PROGRAMS
Workshop on Autodesk Inventor
A Two-day certified CAD Workshop on Autodesk Inventor, was jointly organized by the Dept. of Mechanical Engineering and the ASME MBCET chapter in association with InterCad systems Pvt. Ltd on 22, 23 March 2025 at ME CAD Lab. 27 students had participated in the workshop.
Workshop on CFD
A 5 day workshop on “Application of Computational Fluid Dynamics in Fluid Flow Analysis” was given to Second year mechanical students from Nov 14 – 18, 2022. The workshop was organised by Dept of Mechanical Engineering in association with ASME and Automata, ME dept. The workshop was part of ‘Energon’ Series and the sessions were handled by Mr. Vaisakh S. Nair, Asst Professor, MED.
Workshop on ROBOTICS
A 5 day workshop on Robotics was given to Second year mechanical students from Nov 7 – 11, 2022. The workshop was organised by Dept of Mechanical Engineering in association with Catalyst, Mar Baselios IEDC and Automata, ME dept.
Sniqsys Technosphere
conducted a session for final year students
Canddella,
the education and training wing of
Sniqsys Technosphere
conducted a session for final year students on
16
th
March 2022
to help  students become industry ready professionls. Canddella’s student centric teaching methodology focuses on assessing the potential of the students and getting them ahead of their career through hands on project development of industry standards.
Online interactive session with
Acsia Technologies
An online interactive session with
Acsia Technologies
was conducted for
final year students
on
28
th
Feb 2022
about the software compant  Acsia Technologies and the current opportunity in it.
Acsia technologies is   a global automotive software company delivering end-to-end solutions and services to carmakers and Tier-1s. They specialize in ECU software development including e-Cockpits, Clusters, Head Units and Entertainment Systems for Connected cars and e-Mobility segments. They have deep expertise in Android and Linux based infotainment systems, High end 2D/3D HMI Development, Android Cyber Security, SW Integration, Testing and Test Automation. There main development centre is in Trivandrum, located in India and have offices in Japan, Sweden and Germany.
Webinar on Job opportunities and Postgraduation programmes
Team futon
conducted a  webinar on
17 Feb 2022.
Topic: Job opportunities and Postgraduation programmes through competitive examinations. The talk was conducted  for Second and third year students. The advantage to crack GATE or any other competitive examination (conducted by PSUs, CII,SSC, RRB, State PSCs) was discussed.
Talk on  Latest Technologies in IT
Talk on  Latest Technologies in IT field by Mr
Raghunandan Menon
, Founderdirector(Sympl Augmented Learning Technology (SALT)
on 7 dec 21.
The talk was related to latest softwareslike  Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning,Robotic Edge Computing,QuantumComputing,Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality,Blockchain.,Internet of Things (IoT),5,PYTHON AND Artificial Intelligence.
Webinar on Internship on Design &Development using SOLIDWORKS
CGPU in association with
ConceptiaKonnect
,  conducted a Webinar on “Internship on Design &Development using SOLIDWORKS”.  The talk was related to 3D design and product development solutions from SOLIDWORKS which  help sto conceptualize, create, validate, communicate, manage, and transform innovate ideas into  product designs. Speaker: Mr. VINAY S, Manager – Education & Training, ConceptiaKonnect, Date:
8th November 2021, f
or S5 and S7 students.
Webinar on Quality Function in the Industry and Mechanical Engineers
Webinar on “Quality Function in the Industry and Mechanical Engineers” was conducted for final year students at  06:00 PM on
03rd November 2021.
Topic covered: Project Management.Quality Assurance and Inspection in Oil and Gas,Marine and Petrochemical Industries. Resource Person: Mr Suresh ,Director(Quality Manager)
E2P world technical service.
Talk on
Civil Services preperation
Conducted a talk on
Civil Services preperation
by Mr
. Aswin P Kumar
, Kerala Administrative Services Rank 11, who is an Alumnus of Mechanical Engineering Department, MBCET on
29th October,
3 PM at MED Seminar hall. He shared his experience about his Civil Services preperation and also gave an insight about the opportunities of Mechanical Engineering in Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality.
Talk on Internship opportunities and Internship Fair by Fourth ambit in association with AICTE
A Talk on internship opportunities and internship fair by fourth ambit was given to third year students on April 2018. Fourth Ambit is a specialist networking platform creating value across stakeholders in the education ecosystem. Internship programs are recognized and promoted to help  students gain first-hand industry knowledge and provides a great opportunity to determine if an industry is a good fit for them.
A Talk on Quality Control by SCOREQC Training and services
SCOREQC Training and services is a QA/QC institute in Trivandrum who provides training for professionals in the area of oil and gas, refineries and other industrial fields.  A session on NDT, Piping Engineering and MEP was provided for B Tech Mechanical Engineering final year students on February 2018.
Anand R
of S8 ME got a scholarship for attending a training programme for a Diploma course in Oil and Gas Technology.
A talk on skill development and a scholarship program MECH PRIZE by National Council for Technology and Training (NACTET)
National Council for Technology and Training (NACTET) is an Autonomous organization registered under Govt. of Kerala and recognized by Govt. of India. They provide industry relevant education and well crafted training and skilled development program in different technical areas.
Conducted a skill based scholarship program titled MECH PRIZE for the final year mechanical students. Abhishek R John and Balu G got scholarship for the training program on April 2017.
Talk on soft skills by Dr. B S Warrier
A talk regarding soft skills, career plans after engineering and also tips for making personal career growth was given to first year mechanical students by career guru Dr. B S Warrier on February 2017.
A Talk on Piping Design by ARMSTECH ENGINEERS
ARMSTECH ENGINEERS Private Limited is a developing contracting company founded in 2010. ARMSTECH training division is providing excellent training and proper exposure to the construction sites for B tech holders in Mechanical Engineering. A talk on MEP, Oil and Gas was conducted for the final year mechanical engineering students on August 2018.
A Talk on MEP-HVAC Engineering and Quality Management by TECHMEX GROUP OF INSTITUTIONS
TECHMEX is an educational institution providing state of the art training and certification in the field of NDT, Surface Coatings, MEP-HVAC and Quality Management. A talk on NDT, MEP-HVAC and Quality Management was conducted for the final year mechanical engineering students on March 2018.
A Talk on Project Management in Industrial Engineering by SYNERGY School of Business Skills
A division of CADD Centre, Synergy School of Business Skills is India’s largest network of management training institute, dedicated to providing short-term programmes for professionals in corporate/life skills, project management, operational excellence, and people skills. A talk on Project Management was conducted for the third year mechanical engineering students on January 2019.
A Talk on application and scope of NDT by INDUSCAN Petroleum Institute
INDUSCAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE is an ISO 9001: 2008 certified institution .This institute pioneers in Engineering consultancy, Engineering skill development courses, Human Resources and Skilled Professional Management for all kind of mechanical construction industries especially in Oil and Gas Sector, Thermal Power sector, Petrochemical sector and other related industries. A talk on NDT, MEP-HVAC and Quality Management was conducted for the final year mechanical engineering students on February 2019.
A Talk on Maritime Studies by Society for Industrial and Technical Education of Goa
The institute was established in 1997 by the Society of Industrial and Technical Education of Goa under guidance and approval of Directorate General of Shipping, Govt. of India. Institute of Maritime Studies provides quality training to young aspiring marine engineers. A talk on NDT Maritime training and its job opportunities were given for the final year mechanical engineering students on January 2018.
A talk on Career Guidance by PERFORMX Global
PerformX is a team of Aptitude & Attitude mentors with excellent track records in Common Aptitude Test (CAT) Training. It is designed to shape the young aspirant’s attitude, aptitude and instill confidence in them. PerformX is powered by a team of highly qualified professionals with the passion for excellence in education. A talk on higher studies was given for third year mechanical students on October 2018.
Talk and GATE Mock Test by GATEFORUM
GATEFORUM, promoted by alumni of the IIMs and IITs, is the largest organization in the field of GATE training, with a presence in more than 50 cities and having trained more than 2,30,000 students since inception. GATEFORUM is the number 1 institute for preparation for GATE Exam. The technical team at GATEFORUM comprises of Post Graduates of IITs, IISc and eminent professors teaching for GATE for a number of years. A talk and mock test for GATE exam was given for the third year mechanical students on November 2018.
Training Program On
Energy Conservation Building Codes &Eco-Niwas Samhita
A one day Training program on “ENERGY CONSERVATION BUILDING CODES &ECO-NIWAS SAMHITA” was held on 16th July 2022 at _Energy Management Centre -Kerala. Organised by ENERGY MANAGEMENT CENTRE-KERALA, DEPT. OF POWER, GOVERNMENT OF KERALA (SDA OF BUREAU OF EFFICIENCY, MINISTRY OF POWER, GOI).  5 Students from MBCET has successfully participated on the Training program as the part of ISHARE MBCET. The participants were awarded with certificates on behalf of successful completion of the Training program.
Training Programme in Automotive Engineering
A batch of 30 students from S1 Mechanical had taken part in the 5 days of Internship training programme in Automotive Engineering at Jayamatha ITI in association with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, scheduled during 25-29 April 2022. Certificates were given to the students who successfully completed the training.
TVS Hybrid Programme with Placement Assistance for 2021 Batch
TVS Training and Services is part of the TVS group companies, is  conducting a  training and  placement to students who are passing out during in
June  202l
, by offering following job oriented programs (hybrid mode- onine and practical ) and placement assistance soon after successful completion of training and assessment.
1. Manufacturing programs
Covers all aspects of skill sets required to work in production, quality, New product development and maintenance etc in any company.
CGPU team of ME department
have conducted a couple of meetings with the Training Team of TVS on May 2021 and are planning to give a training programme for a  batch of around 10  students from passout  mechanical 2021 batch on
November.
Training Programme on Internal Combustion Engines
Department of Mechanical Engineering in association with Jayamatha ITC has conducted an
Yamaha Internship Training Programme on  Nov 2021.
Internship training programme was given to
S3 M
students which includes study of IC engines,Cut models, Automobile safety,Lubrication,Coolants etc.
An advanced training program on IC Engines by Yamaha Training Centre
An AUTOMOBILE TRAINING PROGRAM was conducted by YAMAHA Training Centre, Jayamatha ITI, Nalanchira for second year mechanical students as part of their internship program. Practical oriented one week training is given each year from 2017 onwards.
GATE coaching classes
Intensive GATE coaching Program is given to final year students which help them to cover entire spectrum of GATE Preparation such as Concept Building, Problem Solving ability by experienced department faculty.
Advanced Training Program on Computer Aided Design by CADD Centre
CADD centre is Asia’s largest information technology training services company, creating skilled human resources in Computer Aided Design, Engineering and Product Life Cycle Management. A session on advanced CAD softwares like CATIA by Dassault Systems, Autodesk Inventor, ANSYS, AutoCAD, Solid Works etc. was given to third year B Tech Mechanical Engineering students on March 2017.
An International Design Competition was conducted in our college and five students were selected for second round competition and eight hours training in respective softwares were given to the selected students.
A training program on FUSION 360 by BIMIT
BIMIT, Cad & Bim Training and Services is a training centre with a focus on the BIM (Building Information Modelling) software Application training and services promotions. BIMIT is an Autodesk Authorised Training Center. Autodesk Fusion 360 is an integrated CAD, CAM, and CAE tool for product development, built for the new ways products are designed and made.
They conducted a one day training program on FUSION 360 software for the third year mechanical students on January 2018.
A training program on HVAC and NDT by Global Institute for Design Engineering
Global Institute for Design Engineering (GIDE)
is an ISO 9001:2008 certified organization affiliated and recognized at state and national level with different govt. and technical councils. The courses offered under the training programs were Quality and Safety improvement, Sustainability, Cost Management etc.
GIDE conducted two days practical oriented internship program for final year students November 2017.
Personal grooming session and soft skill training Malayalam Manorama in association with Proctor and Gamble
The Personal grooming and Soft skills training was conducted by  Malayala Manorama for final year students on November 2018. The session includes  personality development, presentation skills,communication abilities, language skills, personal habits, cognitive or emotional empathy, time management, teamwork and leadership traits.
One day  training program for Infosys Placement
A one day training program was  conducted  for final year students on January  2019 for Infosys placement. The program was organized by CGPU Department of Mechanical Engineering . Training  was lead by Mr Premchand VP and Mr Remil George Thomas of Mechanical Department, MBCET. Around 88 students attended the program out of  which 18 students were selected by Infosys.
Vision
To be a Centre of Excellence in Education and Research, imparting ethical values for the betterment of mankind.
Mission
To impart Technical Knowledge and Values through continuous Training and Research for the overall development of the Stakeholders.
BoS
The People
DAB
Facilities
News and Events
Activities
Research
Placement
B. Tech PEOs, POs & PSOs
Video Lectures
Syllabus
Student Achievements and Activities
Time Table
Former HoDs