Corporate Relations – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
The UGC has conferred Autonomous status in July 2020,Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Degree awarded by KTU.
||"Ph. D Admissions Open"||
||"B.Tech admissions 2025 Rank List published"||
Welcome to
Corporate Relations
Home
>
Corporate Relations
About
Corporate Relations has been established with an objective to accomplish MBCET’s vision to nurture transformative relations with Industry that deliver mutual benefits for our partners, students, staff, alumni and the community by and large. Industry-academia connect also enables entrepreneurship nurturing. This needs an ecosystem to craft mindset and competency for potential innovators and entrepreneurs. Through establishment of a ‘Centre for Skill Development and Corporate Relations’, MBCET strives to develop a sustainable environment to foster skill development in emerging technologies and strengthen innovation and entrepreneurship development.
FOCUS AREAS
Collaborations
Innovation & Entrepreneurship
Skill Development
Career Guidance & Placements
Message
We are on the cusp of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, or Industry 4.0. If Industry 4.0 is defined by connected cyber-physical systems powered by IoT, Industry 5.0 would be emphasizing on increased collaboration between humans and smart systems; machines take over all monotonous, repetitive tasks while humans engage the creative side. More and more corporate establishments, including the prominent ones, are actively shifting focus  towards new ways of measuring employability as a consequence of the changing nature of work.
The Corporate Relations at MBCET aims to create an ecosystem for the promotion of skill development, establishment of industry-academia connect and foster innovation and entrepreneurship. Industry-academia connect enables academic interventions for technological innovations or modifications, especially in small and medium scale industries. Entrepreneurship nurturing needs an ecosystem — seed, soil, climate and culture elements — to craft the mindset and competency to develop entrepreneurs of the future who use creative approaches to solve existing or future problems faster, cheaper and better with the help of new tools and technologies.
Most debates around the future of education focus on the skills needed for the future. We have to slowly move towards the reality, with more focus on acquiring employability skills along with the degree for our graduates to compete and sustain in the digitized and fluid job markets in the future.
The People
Dr. S Ushakumari
Dean - Corporate Relations
Professor and Dean Corporate Relations, Mar Baselios College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram. Former Project Head, Centre of Excellence in Electric Vehicle, TrEST Research Park, Thiruvananthapuram and Former Professor & Head, Department of Electrical Engineering, College of Engineering Trivandrum. Having 34 years of experience in Research and teaching, produced 9 PhDs, holder of one patent in EV and completed 4 research projects of DRDO, ISRO, CDAC and KSEB. Having 135 publications in International Journals & Conferences. Awardee of 4 national awards, worked as margadarshak / mentor of various engineering colleges as appointed by AICTE. Currently working as Volunteer and Resource Person on Universal Human Values, Connecting person between industry and institute for increasing campus placements, internship, projects and consultancy works.
please click the link provided –
clickhere
Mr. Vipinkumar K.C
COO
Brings along 19 years of multi-faceted professional leadership experience in Human Resource Management, Recruitment, Capacity Building, Policy Formulations, Entrepreneurial Development, Life Skills, Career Development, Campus Placements, Corporate Relations and Strategic Liaising with Government & private organisations . Handled key managerial roles in organisations like SUT Hospital- Trivandrum, Oman UAE Exchange- Muscat, Muthoot Fincorp Ltd. Managed different leadership roles in academic institutions like Mohandas College of Engineering & Technology, MBC College of Engineering & Technology, Berchman’s Institute of Management Studies and Loyola College Trivandrum
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exam Notifications
New
M.Tech Admissions 2025
New
B. Tech Admissions 2025
New
MBCET e-bulletin
New