Library – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
The UGC has conferred Autonomous status in July 2020,Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Degree awarded by KTU.
||"Ph. D Admissions Open"||
||"B.Tech admissions 2025 Rank List published"||
Home
>
Resources
>
Library
Library
The mission of the Central Library is to facilitate creation of new knowledge through acquisition, organization and dissemination of knowledge resources and providing for value added services.
The library has an excellent collection of books, journals and non-book materials in Science, Engineering, Technology, Humanities, Social science and Management. It maintains separate collections of Reference Books, standard, bound volumes of Journals, Technical Reports, previous question papers, CD-ROMSs, DVDs, Periodicals, etc. At present, the library has a collection of around 27800 Volumes and 11644 Titles of books, Reports and Reference material. Besides standard textbooks, the library contains books of literature and general interest.
Library Advisory Committee
(LAC)  is constituted for effective functioning of the College Central library.
Loading...
Taking too long?
Reload document
|
Open in new tab
Books are classified and arranged as per Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC), so that members can locate books easily. The library is digitalized and operates on Libsoft software. In addition to the Central Library, there are Departmental Libraries for all Departments which are automated using KOHA OSS. The library is completely computerized and the circulation is based on barcode system.
Consortium / Institutional Membership
ESS – E-ShodhSindhu by INFLIBNET – Consortium for higher education electronic resources. (Formerly
INDEST-AICTE Consortium) –
Clickhere
NDLI Club –
Institutional Membership with
National Digital Library (NDL)
of India –
Clickhere
DELNET – Developing Library Network –
Clickhere
A reservoir of Indian Theses (shodhganga) –
Clickhere
Apart from the conventional library, there exists a digital library which contains sufficient digital documents such as E-books, E-Journals, Technical Reports, Project Reports, etc. The library has access to around 96 National Journals. The MBCET library access to the 5 set E-journal packages viz. IEEE-ASPP, ASCE, ASME ,IEI Journals and Science Direct.
The above E-resources can be accessed through the campus-wide fiber-optic network to all computers and Wi-Fi enabled laptops in the Institute. i.e., No User-ID & Password needed for accessing full text.  Als o off-campus ( Remote Access) available through Knimbus.
Contact library at
library
@mbcet.ac.in
IRINS –
Clickhere
MBCET Library on Mobile / Web
E-Books –
EBSCO Engineering E-Books
–      7000+ E-Books
Digital Database –
Developing Library Network (DELNET)
Mar Baselios College of Engineering & Technology library has been integrated with cloud based digital solution wherein all online resources subscribed / purchased by the library can be accessed off-campus anywhere, anytime and any device.
URL:
https://mbcet.knimbus.com/
Login: Your registered mail ID – MBCET e-mail, i.e (
[email protected]
)
Password: user@knimbus (for first time login only, after which the system will ask for change of password)
Mobile App: mLibrary (Android / iOS – Login remains the same as web)
Andriod –
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.elib.knimbusapp
iOS –
https://apps.apple.com/in/app/mlibrary-your-mobile-elibrary/id1454498417
For the first time please login through web so as to change the password accordingly.
Connect to the library for any queries.
The important library services are:
DSpace Digital Repository
Reprographic Facility
Library Instruction Classes
SDI – Selective Dissemination Information
CAS – Current Awareness Service
OPAC – Online Public Access Catalogue
On demand literature search
IRC Codes
BIS Codes
Science Direct E-Journals through KTU Consortium.
Turnitin -Anti-Plagirism Software.
MBCET Central Library Catalogue
Engineering, Science & Technology Resources Portal
MBCET Library subscribing E-Journals
MBCET Department Libraries Catalogue @ MBCET LAN
Digital Library – DSpace @ MBCET LAN : Theses and dissertations
Institutional Digital Depository (IDR)
ASCE Journals (American Society of Civil Engineers)
ASME Journals (American Society of Mechanical Engineers)
IEI-Springer Journals
IEEE Xplore Digital Library – IEEE ASPP – Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
Borrowing Facility
Category
Type
No of Books
Time
Students
B.Tech
3
30 days
Students
M.Tech
4
30 days
Faculty
6
4 months/ Last working day of the semester
Research Scholars
4
30 days
Administrative Staff
2
4 months
Library Timings
Monday to Friday
8.30 a.m. to 6.00 p.m.
Saturday
9.30 a.m to 4.00 p.m.
Library Team
Post
Name
Qualification
Librarian
Mr. Binu K John
B.Sc., M.L.I.Sc., M.Phil., PGDCA, NET
Asst. Librarian
Ms. Anjana G
B.Sc., M.L.I.Sc.
Asst. Librarian
Mr. Sambhu B. K
B.Com, M.L.I.Sc
Asst. Librarian
Mr. Sabeesh.T
B.A., M.L.I.Sc
Office Assistant
Ms. Sherin Mary Joseph
B.Com, PGDCA
Office Attender
Mr. Rejy John
Nursing Station
Library
ITMS
Hostel
Transportation
Canteen
Amenities Center
Gymnasium
Chapel
Maintenance Cell
Cells and Groups
Environment Management Cell
Waste Management Cell
Central Computing Facility
Conference Halls
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exam Notifications
New
M.Tech Admissions 2025
New
B. Tech Admissions 2025
New
MBCET e-bulletin
New