B. Tech PEOs, POs & PSOs – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
Home
>
Departments
>
Electrical and Electronics Engineering
>
B. Tech PEOs, POs & PSOs
B. Tech PEOs, POs & PSOs
PROGRAMME EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES (PEOs)
Programme Educational Objectives
are the broad statements which describe in detail about the career and professional accomplishments after significant years of graduation, which the programme prepares the graduands to achieve.
Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Graduates will succeed as Professionals in Industry or as Entrepreneurs in Electrical and Electronics Engineering and related disciplines..
Graduates will be able to adapt to the advances in Technology by continuously acquiring knowledge and skills, with an urge for innovation.
Graduates will be socially committed individuals, exhibiting professional ethics in addressing technical and engineering challenges.
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Graduates will succeed as Engineering Professionals in Industry or as Entrepreneurs in Electrical and Computer Engineering and the related disciplines and exhibit an urge for innovation.
Graduates will be able to adapt to the advances in Technology by acquiring knowledge and skills manifested through continuous learning and higher qualifications.
Graduates will be serving community as socially committed individuals, exhibiting professional ethics in addressing the technical and engineering challenges.
PROGRAMME OUTCOMES (POs)
Programme Outcomes
are the statements as stated by NBA that declare the knowledge, skills and attitudes the students should have at the end of a four year engineering programme in India.
Engineering graduates will be able to:
Engineering knowledge
: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.
Problem analysis
: Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.
Design/development of solutions
: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.
Conduct investigations of complex problems
: Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.
Modern tool usage
: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
The engineer and society
: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
Environment and sustainability
: Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
Ethics
: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.
Individual and team work
: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
Communication
: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
Project management and finance
: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
Life-long learning
: Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.
PROGRAMME SPECIFIC OUTCOMES (PSOs)
Programme Specific Outcomes
are the statements that assert what the graduands of a specific engineering programme should be able to do.
I. Electrical and Electronics Engineering
To apply the knowledge in Electrical and Electronics Engineering for the design of Power Generation, Transmission, Distribution and Utilization systems.
To demonstrate the knowledge required to design, develop, test, and implement Electrical & Electronics systems
II. Electrical and Computer Engineering
To apply the knowledge in Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering for the design, development testing and operation of Power and Energy Systems in the areas of Generation, Transmission, Conversion, Distribution and Utilization systems.
To apply the knowledge in Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering for the design, development and operation of Industrial systems in the areas of Automation, Control, Energy Management and Economic operation.
Vision
To be a Centre of Excellence in Electrical & Electronics Engineering Education, Research and Application of knowledge to benefit the society at large.
Mission
To mould quality Electrical Engineers, fostering creativity and innovation to address global issues.
BoS
Department Advisory Board
The People
Facilities
News and Events
Activities
Conferences
Workshops & Seminars
Research & Consultancy
Placement
B. Tech PEOs, POs & PSOs
Opportunities
Curriculum & Syllabus
Time Table
Video Lectures
Former HODs
Department Google Site