Conferences – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
The UGC has conferred Autonomous status in July 2020,Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Degree awarded by KTU.
||"Ph. D Admissions Open"||
||"B.Tech admissions 2025 Rank List published"||
Home
>
Departments
>
Civil Engineering
>
Conferences
Conferences
ICID 2024
Upcoming International Conference
ICID 2024
ICID 2024
Second International Conference on Infrastructure Development, Conducted by the Department of Civil Engineering MBCET, from
September
25
th
to 27
th
, 2024
focuses on resilience, sustainability and transformation adaptation in infrastructure. It will be held at Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology (MBCET) in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala.
ICID 2024 aims to address the challenges and opportunities in infrastructure development, considering its crucial role in societal progress and sustainable development goals (SDGs). The conference provides a platform for stakeholders, academicians, practitioners and students to come together to seek solutions and innovations.
Join us for three days of insightful discussions, keynote sessions, technical presentations, workshops and networking opportunities.
For more details, visit the website:
https://www.icid24.in/
Contact:
The Organizers,
ICID 2024,
Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology,
Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India.
Dr. Jaya S Pillai
+91 96332 65828
[email protected]
Dr. Amal Raj
+91 77366 06107
[email protected]
Mr. Nitin S
+91 99957 35762
[email protected]
Loading...
Taking too long?
Reload document
|
Open in new tab
ICID 2018
The department of Civil Engineering conducted International Conference on Infrastructure Development: Issues, Innovations &The Way Forward, from 21st to 23rd JUNE, 2018. ICID 2018 was conducted IN ASSOCIATION WITH Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). ICID 2018 aimed to present the state-of-art in infrastructure development as it exists today, around the world and its applicability in the Indian scenario.
The conference was started with three pre conference workshops at different venues. It was inaugurated by Shri G Sudhakaran (Honorable Minister for Public works & Registration, Govt of Kerala) on 21 July 2018.
The conference also had an Exhibition open to all on 21 and 22 June, 2018 and Pre-conference workshops on 21 June 2018. The Pre conference workshop included
Workshop #1: Sustainable Pavements & Asset Management
Workshop #2: Structural Simulations using FEASTSMT Software
Workshop #3: A Technical Tour of Greenfield International Stadium, Kerala.
The official inauguration of conference was held at Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology, (MBCET) on 22 July 2018 by Dr. K. Jayakumar, MD & CEO, Vizhinjam International Seaport Ltd.
The key note speakers included
Dr. Rajib B Mallick Professor, Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI), Massachusetts, USA.
Dr. T Thyagaraj Associate Professor, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, India.
Dr. Gopu R Potty Professor, University of Rhode Island, USA.
Dr. Santosh G Thampi Professor, National Institute of Technology Calicut, India.
Dr. P K Sikdar President, Intercontinental Consultants & Technocrats Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, India.
Mr. Immanual Jose Structural Engineer, Eco White/Advent Consulting Engineers, Thiruvananthapuram, India.
Dr. J Murali Krishnan Professor, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, India.
Mr. Shreeganesh V Nair MD, Ganesh Technical Consultancy Services (GTCS), Cochin, India.
Mr. Harikishan Koppula Reddy CEO, Cube Highways, Noida, India.
The conference was held with five different streams in Civil Engineering such as Structural, Geo-tech, Hydraulics, Transportation and Environmental Engineering with Keynote lecture from eminent persons around the globe.
On July 23, 2018 the valedictory function of the conference was held in Senatus Hall, MBCET with the best paper award and certificate.
Proceedings-
Clickhere
NASE
NASE 2019
NASE 2019
The ‘National Conference on Advances in Structural Engineering (NASE 2019)’ was organized by the Department of Civil Engineering, Mar Baselios College of Engineering & Technology, Nalanchira in association with Indian Concrete Institute, Thiruvananthapuram Chapter. The three day conference was conducted from 2
nd
to 4
th
of May 2019. It was inaugurated by Dr. Rajasree M.S., Vice Chancellor, APJ Abdul Kalam Kerala Technological University. Rev. Fr. John Vilayil, Bursar, presented a memento to the guest of honour.  The inaugural function was presided over by Prof. S Viswanatha Rao, Vice-Principal and Dr. M Satyakumar, Head of the Department of Civil Engineering, welcomed the gathering.
Various sessions were handled by eminent personalities from industry, academia and research.
The forenoon session on May 2
nd
was handled by Er. Jose Kurien, Team Leader, CDM Smith Pvt.Ltd. on the topic ‘Development of National Standards for Construction Project Management’
The afternoon session on May 2
nd
was taken by Dr. N Ganesan, Professor (Retd.), NIT Calicut
on ‘Ultra High Performance Concrete for Durable Structures
The first keynote session on May 3
rd
dealt with the topic ‘Geopolymer- An Ecofriendly Alternative to Portland Cement’ by Dr. N P Rajamane, Head , CACR, SRM University. A handbook on Geopolymer concrete usage for practicing engineers by Dr. N P Rajamane was also released by Dr. M Satyakumar,Head of the Department of Civil Engineering, after the session.
The second session On May 3
rd
was addressed by Dr. M Murugan, Assistant Professor, Government Engineering College, Theni, on the subject ‘Fibre Reinforced Polymer Strengthened Reinforced Concrete Piles under Lateral Loads’.
An industry student interaction programme was also arranged on May 3
rd
with a team from UltraTech Cement Limited regarding the New codal provisions for Concrete Mix Design.
On May 4
th
, the first keynote session was handled by Dr. A K Ashraff, Group Director, SDAG-LPSC on the topic ‘A Brief History of Fracture Mechanics – From Glass to Copper’.
A workshop on Tekla Software was also conducted on May 4
th
by Reliant Institute of Technology.
NASE 2017
NATIONAL CONFERENCE ON ADVANCES IN STRUCTURAL ENGINEERING (NASE 2017)
Thiruvananthapuram: The ‘National Conference on Advances in Structural Engineering (NASE 2017)’ was organized by the Department of Civil Engineering, Mar Baselios College of Engineering & Technology, Nalanchira in association with Kerala State Council for Science Technology and Environment, and Indian Concrete Institute Thiruvananthapuram Chapter. The three day conference from 21st to 23rd of February 2017 was inaugurated by Mr. Nitin Agrawal I.P.S., ADGP Crimes, who is also a renowned civil engineer. Rev. Fr. Wilson Thattaruthundil (Bursar, MBCET) presented a momento to the guest of honour.  The inaugural function was preceded over by Dr T. M. George (Principal). and Dr. M. Satyakumar (Head of the Department) welcomed the gathering.
Talks by various eminent persons were organized for the delegates:
Dr. C.S. Manohar (Professor, IISc Bangalore), handled a session on ‘Uncertainty Modelling and Reliability Analysis’.
Dr. N. Ganesan (Professor, NIT Calicut), handled a session on ‘Non-destructive Testing’.
Er. Jose Kurian (Team Leader, CDM Smith), handled a session on ‘Signature Bridge’.
Dr. J. Karthikeyan (Professor, NIT Thiruchirapally), handled a session on ‘New Codal Provisions on Pre-stressed Concrete Design’.
Dr. Jaya K. P. (Professor, Anna university Chennai), handled a session on ‘Earthquake Engineering’.
Students from various engineering institutions presented their research work.
An Experimental Testing Work was organised, which includes testing of RC beams, columns, beam column joints, durability test etc.
UltraTech Cements conducted a workshop on ‘Mix Design’, during the last day of the conference.
Dr. AjitPrabhu (Joint Director and Nodal Officer, Patent Information Centre Kerala, KSCSTE) released the procceding and Er. VelapgyMadhu Mohan (Chairman, ICI Thiruvananthapuram Chapter) distributed the certificates during the valedictory function.
NASE 2015-16
“National Seminar on Advances in Structural Engineering (NASE 15-16)”
A two day seminar was conducted on advances in structural engineering called “National Seminar on Advances in Structural Engineering (NASE)” on 7th and 8th of April 2016. It was attended by the B.Tech& M.Tech civil engineering students of Mar Baselios and eminent personalities holding key position in various civil engineering establishments delivered the talk. Inauguration was done by
Padma Shri G Shankar
, Architect, Habitat Group.
Other speakers were
Dr. Ruby Abraham, Rtd. Principal, RIT Kotayam on the topic Geo-polymer Concrete
Dr. Saravanan U., Structural Division, IIT Madras on the topic Structural Health Monitoring of bridges
Dr. Smitha M.S., Associate Professor, Civil Engineering Dept., CET on the topic Steel-Concrete Composite Sections
Mr. P. Jayakumar., GM, Civil, Light Metro, DMRC on the topic Light Metro Project
Dr. Sunil Edward., Asst. Professor., Dept. of Architecture, CET on the topic Green architecture
Dr. Narayanan S., Vice Principal and HoD Civil, Mohandas College, Trivandrum, and Former Professor, University Technology Petronas, Malaysia on the topic Load Factor Calibration
Mr. A. K. Asraff, Head, Structural Division, LPSC Valyamala on the topic Structural Plasticity
BoS
The People
DAB
Facilities
News & Events
Achievements
Activities
Faculty Activities
Conferences
Research & Consultancy
B. Tech PEOs, POs & PSOs
Placement
Curriculum & Syllabus
Time Table
Former HoDs
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exam Notifications
New
M.Tech Admissions 2025
New
B. Tech Admissions 2025
New
MBCET e-bulletin
New