Compliance of UGC Guidelines / Regulations 2018 for Autonomous Colleges – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
Home
>
IQAC
>
Compliance of UGC Guidelines / Regulations 2018 for Autonomous Colleges
Compliance of UGC Guidelines / Regulations 2018 for Autonomous Colleges
Details of the constitution of following statutory bodies, as per the Regulations/Guidelines. Governing Body, Academic Council, Board of Studies, Finance Committee.
Governing Body
Academic Council
BoS
Finance Committee
Details of the constitution of following non-statutory committees, as prescribed in the Regulations/Guidelines.
Planning and Evaluation Committee, Grievance Redressal Committee, Examination Committee, Admission Committee, Library Committee, Student Welfare Committee, Anti-Sexual Harassment Committee, Extra-Curricular Activities Committee, Academic Audit Committee.
Strategic Planning Committee
Grievance Redressel
Examination Committee
Admission Committee
Library Committee
Internal Complaint Committee
Extra-Curricular Activities Committee
Academic Audit Committee
Details of establishment of IQAC Cell, External Peer Team comprising of academicians of repute, Report of the External Peer Team review, uploaded on the website of the College.
Establishment of IQAC
External Peer Team
Reports of External Peer Team review uploaded on website
Screen shots of the information uploaded on college website regarding the courses offered, the fees for the courses, the details of the faculty along with qualification and unique ID, the admission procedure, the details of relevant infrastructures, research activities of the college along with the details of Ph.D. students enrolled, if any, with the date of enrolment, topics and supervisor.
Courses Offered
Fee Structure
Details of Faculty with Qualification, Unique ID
Admission Procedure
Details of Infrastructure
Research Activities of the College
Details of PhD Students enrolled with date of Enrollment, Topics and Supervisor
Whether the college has been conducting meetings of the statutory bodies regularly and uploading the minutes of the meetings on the college website. Copies of the minute(s) of meeting(s) may be provided.
Minutes of Meeting
Screen shot of the Undertaking uploaded on college website to the effect that all the Regulations notified by the UGC shall be followed in letter and spirit.
Undertaking
Compliance of UGC Guidelines / Regulations 2018 for Autonomous Colleges