B. Tech PEOs, POs & PSOs – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
Home
>
Departments
>
Mechanical Engineering
>
B. Tech PEOs, POs & PSOs
B. Tech PEOs, POs & PSOs
PROGRAMME EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
Graduates will be Engineering Professionals, Innovators or Entrepreneurs engaged in Technology Development or implementation of Engineering Systems meeting the Industrial needs.
Graduates will be successful in the pursuit of higher education or research, in Engineering or Management Studies.
Graduates will be self-disciplined and capable of applying technical concepts and skills for the benefit of society.
PROGRAMME OUTCOMES
Engineering Graduates will be able to:
Engineering knowledge
: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.
Problem analysis
: Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.
Design/development of solutions
: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.
Conduct investigations of complex problems
: Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.
Modern tool usage
: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
The engineer and society
: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
Environment and sustainability
: Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
Ethics
: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.
Individual and team work
: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
Communication
: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
Project management and finance
: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
Life-long learning
: Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.
PROGRAMME SPECIFIC OUTCOMES (PSOs
):
Apply the concepts of Solid Mechanics in the design of Mechanical Engineering systems.
Apply knowledge of Thermal and Fluid Sciences to solve Engineering Problems.
Use Simulation Tools and Computer Integrated Systems in Mechanical Engineering.
Apply advanced manufacturing processes and modern Industrial Management Techniques in Engineering.
Vision
To be a Centre of Excellence in Education and Research, imparting ethical values for the betterment of mankind.
Mission
To impart Technical Knowledge and Values through continuous Training and Research for the overall development of the Stakeholders.
BoS
The People
DAB
Facilities
News and Events
Activities
Research
Placement
B. Tech PEOs, POs & PSOs
Video Lectures
Syllabus
Student Achievements and Activities
Time Table
Former HoDs