Teaching & Learning – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
The UGC has conferred Autonomous status in July 2020,Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Degree awarded by KTU.
||"Ph. D Admissions Open"||
||"B.Tech admissions 2025 Rank List published"||
Home
>
Teaching & Learning
Teaching & Learning
Teachers use ICT enabled tools for effective teaching-learning process.
The College has been emphasizing ICT enabled tools for effective Teaching-Learning process. All the teachers were used to conducting lectures using LCDs and smart boards. But due to the pandemic situation, all the teachers had to quickly adapt to Online Teaching and Learning. The College conducted several training sessions on Online teaching using LMS like Google Classrooms, online assessment methods, recording software and other ICT tools. All the lecture recordings and contents were uploaded on the Subject Google Classrooms. Apart from these initiatives, the teachers also attended workshop on E-Content development using video making and editing software, Camtasia and other screen casting software were also conducted. All the teachers use Google Classroom for their respective subjects. To teach mathematical subjects in online mode, teachers have used various online tools like- whiteboard in Microsoft teams, Jamboard in Google meet, etc. This has made the teaching-learning process more effective and available at any point of the time for all the students.
ICT Tools:
Projectors- Projectors are available in different classrooms/labs
Desktop and Laptops- Arranged at Computer Lab and Faculty cabins all over the campus.
Printers- They are installed at Labs, HOD Cabins and all prominent places.
Photocopier machines – Multifunction printers are available at all prominent places in the institute.
Scanners- Multifunction printers are available at all prominent places.
Seminar Rooms- Seminar halls are equipped with all digital facilities.
Smart Board- 12 smart board is installed in the campus. 8. Auditorium- It is digitally equipped with mike, projector, cameras and computer system.
Online Classes through Zoom, Google Meet, Microsoft Team, Google Classroom)
HackerRank (Online Coding Platform)- inter college competition
MOOC Platform (NPTEL, Coursera, SAP, Udemy, Edx etc)
Digital Library resources
Turnitin (Plagiarism tool)
Use of ICT by Faculty
PowerPoint presentations- Faculties are encouraged to use power-point presentations in their teaching by using LCD’s and projectors. They are also equipped by digital library, online search engines and websites to prepare effective presentations.
Industry Connect- Seminar and Conference room are digitally equipped where guest lectures, expert talks and various competitions are regularly organized for students.
Online quiz- Faculties prepare online quiz for students after the completion of each unit with the help of GOOGLE FORMS.
Video Conferencing- Students are counseled with the help of Zoom / Google meet applications.
Video lecture- Recording of video lectures is made available to students for long term learning and future referencing.
Online competitions- Various technical events and management events such as Poster making, Project presentations, quiz, Debates, paper presentations etc. are being organized with the help of various Information Communication Tools.
Workshops- Teachers use various ICT tools for conducting workshops on latest method.
The Teaching and Learning Center (TLC) was formed to inspire, support and strengthen new directions in pedagogy and learning at MBCET.
The TLC facilitates:
Preparation for Video lectures and courses through structured workshops
Sharing of good teaching practices among faculty members
Innovation in teaching methods by partnering with faculty members
Faculty development through online learning resources and peer learning
TLC Coordinator
Ms. Shyju Susan Mathew, Asst. Professor, EED
Dr. Veena Nair, Asst. Professor, (English and Communication)
Committee Members
:
Dr. Alice Thomas, Asst. Professor, CED
Ms. Gayathri K.S, Asst. Professor, CSD
Mr. Sherry Varghese George, Asst. Professor, ECD
Ms. Sheenu P, Asst. Professor, EED
Mr. Roshan George Koshy, Asst. Professor, MED
Dr.Lakshmi J S, Asst. Professor, Science and Humanities Department.
Details on Activities during 2024-2025
TEACHING LEARNING CENTER,MBCET
DATE
WORKSHOP TITLE
RESOURCE PERSON
No of Participants
10-06-2025
Teaching Gen Z
Mrs. Dainu Kuruvilla, Manager – Learning and Development at Tata Elxsi
25
09-04-2025
Outcome Based Education
Dr. Nethu Roy, Research Dean, MBCET
16
03-01-2025
CO-PO mapping awareness
Dr Vinod V,  Associate Professor, MED
Mr. Praveen G L, Assistant Professor, CSE
60
29-11-2024
Micro Teaching, An Effective Lesson Plan, Evaluation
One-hour sessions on three topics related to Pedagogy: Micro Teaching, An Effective Lesson Plan, and Evaluation, was conducted.  The speakers gave their insights on the topics and interacted with the faculty members. The session focussed on optimum and effective content delivery through a proper lesson plan and conducting a holistic evaluation of the student.
Dr. Deepthi Elizabeth Mathew (Faculty, B.Ed)
Dr. Shiney Jacob (Faculty, B.Ed)
Mr. Nadhanine J P (Faculty, B.Ed)
Mar Theophilus Training College, Nalanchira.
22
08-11-2024
One-hour sessions on three topics related to Pedagogy: Methodology of Teaching, Classroom Management, and Psychology of Learners, was conducted. The speakers gave their insights on the topics and interacted with the faculty members. The sessions revolved around various effective teaching methodologies and classroom management based on understanding the psychology of the learners
Mr. Rakesh Sharma (Faculty, M.Ed)
Mrs. Roshna Mariam Eapen (Faculty, B.Ed)
Dr. Joju John (Principal)
Mar Theophilus Training College, Nalanchira.
25
10-07-2024
Envisioning MBCET as a learning organization
The Teaching Learning Centre of the College conducted a one-day workshop for Deans, HoDs, and senior faculty members of the college.
Theme: Envisioning MBCET as a learning organization.
Dr. C.Thomas Abraham, Founder, Butterfly Foundation.
35
TEACHING LEARNING CENTER,MBCET
DATE
WORKSHOP TITLE
RESOURCE PERSON
No Of Participants
March 22, 2022, and April 12, 2022
Microteaching Workshop
Dr. K Y Benedict, Principal, Mar Theophilus  Training College, Dr. V. Raghu, Former Director, Rajiv Gandhi National Institute for Youth Development, Swami Gurunandh Jnanathapswi,
30
December 7, 2022
Orientation Program
Prof. S. Viswanatha Rao
33
March 20,2021
Online Training Programme on Course Delivery Cycle
Dr. Edamana Prasad, Professor, Teaching Learning Centre, IIT Madras
25
08/10/2021
Teaching GenZ
Dr. Brijesh Nair Professor and Director (International Affairs & Global Initiatives), O.P. Jindal Global University
30
12/11/2021 20/11/2021
Training Programme on Outcome Based Curriculum (Virtual mode
Prof. Joshua Ernest, Professor (Retdd), NITTTR Bhopal
50
9th November 2021
OBE an overview
Prof. S. Viswanatha Rao
30
1 Nov 2021
Orientation Program
Principal and Vice principal
30
13/08/2021 (Friday)
New Normal New Life: Let Us Bounce Back
Ms Aparna Pavanajan
24
March 23 2021
Seminar on New Challenges and Opportunities for Technical Education in the context of NEP 2020-Importance of Autonomy
Padma Vibhushan Dr G Madhavan Nair, Former Chairman, ISRO
60
21
st
and 22
nd
June 2019
Two day workshop on Integral Education for teachers
Mr. Arul Dev
(Founder CEO of People first Consultants)
34
14
th
-25
th
January 2019
Advanced Engineering Mathematics
Faculty’s from S& H
27
23
rd
July 2018
Teacher a Performing Artist
Dr. Premlet B
(Prof. &Head(Rtd),
Dpt. of Physics, TKM, Kollam)
41
24
th
July 2018
Creative Leadership in a Rapidly Changing Environment
Sri. Tom Thekkel
30
19
th
January 2018
Follow-up session on Teaching Learning
Prof. Edamana Prasad
(IIT Madras)
24
23
rd
July 2018
Talk on Building world class Institution
Dr M Ayyappan (
Chairman & Managing Director of HLL Life care Limited (HLL)(Rtd))
86
24
th
February 2018
Workshop on Creative Learning: A Proactive approach to student centered Learning
Dr. Premlet B
(Prof. &Head(Rtd), Department of Physics, TKM College of Engineering, Kollam)
37
21
st
-23
rd
April 2017
FDP on Teaching Learning Methodologies( TLC,IIT-Madras)
Prof. Edamana Prasad
Prof. Rajeev Sukumaran
(IIT Madras)
31
11
th
Jan-2017
Talk on Introduction to Research
Prof Devadas
Menon
(IIT-Madras)
28
7
th
–December 2015
One day Training Program(Communication & Teacher Competency, Skill Implementation, Understanding Psychology of the Learner, Student Assessment)
Dr. S Maya,
Dr. Giby Gheevarghese,
Dr. Joju John
(Assistant Professor in Mar Theophilus College, Nalanchira)
Dr. K Y Benedict
(Associate Professor in Mar Theophilus College, Nalanchira)
35
Workshop & Seminar
ISRO IIRS Outreach Programme
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exam Notifications
New
M.Tech Admissions 2025
New
B. Tech Admissions 2025
New
MBCET e-bulletin
New