Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
The UGC has conferred Autonomous status in July 2020,Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Degree awarded by KTU.
||"Ph. D Admissions Open"||
||"B.Tech admissions 2025 Rank List published"||
Home
>
Internal Complaints Committee (ICC)
Internal Complaints Committee (ICC)
MAR BASELIOS COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY,THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
INTERNAL COMPLAINTS COMMITTEE (ICC)
In pursuance of UGC (Prevention, prohibition and redressal of sexual harassment of women employees and students in higher educational institutions) Regulations 2015 read with Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013 (SHWW Act 2013), and  as per the AICTE Regulations, Internal Complaints Committee (ICC)  which was constituted  earlier (office order 1) has later been   reconstituted (office order 1 &office order 2) to deal with the complaints relating to Sexual Harassment at workplace.
Loading...
Taking too long?
Reload document
|
Open in new tab
On receipt of a complaint, ICC shall conduct preliminary enquiry so as to ascertain the truth of the allegations by collecting the documentary evidence and the recording statements of possible witnesses including the complainant. ICC shall then submit the preliminary enquiry report to the Principal along with all the original documents collected during the preliminary enquiry proceedings. In case the allegations are not in the nature of sexual harassment, ICC may refer such complaints to the Grievance Redressal Cell or the other sections concerned.
Where sexual harassment occurs as a result of an act or omission by any third party or outsider, ICC shall take all steps necessary and reasonable to assist the affected person in terms of support and preventive action.
ICC shall comply with the procedure prescribed in the aforementioned UGC Regulations 2015 and the Sexual Harassment Act for inquiring into the complaint in a time bound manner.
If ICC concludes that the allegations made were false, malicious or the complaint was made knowing it to be untrue or forged, or misleading information has been provided during the inquiry, the complainant shall be liable to be punished as per the relevant provision of the UGC Regulations 2015.
Member Secretary, ICC shall receive the complaints of sexual harassment, if any, on behalf of ICC and shall co-ordinate the deliberations of the ICC on the complaints received.
Who can approach ICC FOR HELP?
Any female (faculty, student or staff) of MBCET Thiruvananthapuram.
Definition of Sexual Harassment:
‘Sexual Harassment’ includes any unwelcome sexually inclined behavior, whether directly or indirectly, such as:
Physical contact and advances
Demand or request for sexual favours
Sexually coloured remarks
Showing any pornography, or
Any other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of sexual nature.
What are the possible actions that can be taken against the respondent?
Warning
Written Apology
Bond of good behavior
Adverse remark in the Confidential Report
Stopping of increments/ Promotion
Suspension
Dismissal
Any other relevant actions
If you think you are harassed or being harassed, what should you do?
Inform the chairperson by email
[email protected]
. To know more about ICC procedure, you may refer to the related documents, the details of which are given below.
Your complaint will be kept CONFIDENTIAL.
Inquiry process:
The inquiry shall be completed within a period of 90 days from the date of the complaint. On completion of the inquiry, the ICC shall provide a report of its findings to the employer within a period of 10 days from the date of completion of the inquiry and such report be made available to the parties concerned.
If the allegations against the respondent has been proved, it shall recommend punitive actions to be taken against the respondent to the employer. The employer shall act upon the recommendation within 60 days of receiving it.
Useful Documents and Notices:
1) Office Orders 1,2 &3  2) Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 3) Ministry of Women & Child Development Order dated 27 October,2014  4)  UGC Regulations for Higher Educational Institutions,2015 (The Gazette of India,May2,2016)  5)  UGC Orders dated 14 May 2019 & 10 June 2021.
UGC Orders & Regulations
UGC Regulations for Higher Education Institutions
Ministry of Women and Child Welfare Order
UGC Order dated 10.06.2021
UGC Order dated 14.05.2019
Events
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23
Annual Report 2021
Handbook
HANDBOOK On Sexual Harassment of Woman at Workplace
Office Orders
June 2024
March 2023
April 2022
March 2021
October 2020
UGC Orders & Regulations
Events
Handbook
Office Orders
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exam Notifications
New
M.Tech Admissions 2025
New
B. Tech Admissions 2025
New
MBCET e-bulletin
New