27th NATIONAL CHILDREN’S SCIENCE CONGRESS – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
The UGC has conferred Autonomous status in July 2020,Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Degree awarded by KTU.
||"Ph. D Admissions Open"||
||"B.Tech admissions 2025 Rank List published"||
27
th
NATIONAL CHILDREN’S SCIENCE CONGRESS
27 – 31 December 2019
The 27th National Children’s Science Congress (NCSC) was inaugurated by Shri. Pinarayi Vijayan, Hon’ble Chief Minister of Kerala and presided by Dr. Sasi Tharoor, Hon’ble Member of Parliament on 27 December 2019. After the Inaugural Program, the presentations, workshops and exhibitions were held at MAR BASELIOS COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY (MBCET). This included Technical sessions which were held at 12 parallel halls in B-block, Teacher’s Workshop in 2 parallel halls in G-block, Scientific Activity Corner in F-block, Scientific Exhibition which was open to the public across three days, from 27 to 29 December 2019. The National Children’s Science Congress is the single largest action research congress for children across the nation. Children belonging to the age group 10-17 years have participated in the Congress. In this edition of NCSC, about 49 % of the children were from rural areas of India and 59.8 % of the children participating were girls.
Procession
The procession of children from different states of the country was flagged off by Shri. M. C. Dathan, Scientific Advisor to CM of Kerala. The children of each state wore their traditional attire which was a visual treat to all those who gathered at the venue.
Technical Sessions
Technical Session featured 15 to 16 young scientists who grabbed the opportunity to unfold their creativity and stimulate their scientific temperament. Young Scientists not only from across the States but also from the Middle East stretched their imagination over a wide gamut of areas. The young scientists came up with very innovative and creative ideas which were indeed inspiring. The young audience of child scientists participated enthusiastically in the sessions and made it a grand success.
Teacher’s Workshop
Teacher’s Workshop was held in 2 parallel halls of Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology. These sessions were held across three days, from 27 to 29 December 2019.
The workshop had talks by resource persons from various technical universities and other organisations which enlightened the teachers and delegates. The last session of the workshop was conducted by Dr. Rojalin Sahu, Associate Professor, KIIT University, Bhuvaneswar. In her session, she discussed about teaching aids in Chemistry. The session was made interactive by performing simple experiments on making science easy and fascinating for the students. The whole workshop was done in an enthusiastic way filled with new ideas and knowledge.
Activity Corner and Poster Exhibition
Activity Corner and Poster Exhibition was held from 27 to 29 December 2019. It is a galore of innovations at the exhibition which provided the students a platform to showcase their solutions to the real world problems faced by the human population.
Meet the Scientists
Meet the Scientists session was held from 27 to 29 December 2019. The following eminent personalities delivered sessions on their specific areas:
Dr. Unnikrishnan Nair, Human Space Flight Centre, ISRO
Dr. Tessy Thomas, DRDO
Dr. Suresh Das, IISER Trivandrum
Shri. M. C. Dathan, Scientific Advisor to CM of Kerala
Dr. P. S. Easa, KFRI
Address by Hon’ble Vice President of India
The Hon’ble Vice President of India, Shri. M. Venkaiah Naidu gave the valedictory address to the Child Scientists at the 27th National Children’s Science Congress on 30 December 2019. It was also presided by the Hon’ble Governor of Kerala, Shri. Arif Mohammad Khan. Hon’ble Vice President of India also interacted with the children and gave a message to lead a life that would contribute to a Clean, Green and Healthy Nation.
Cultural Evening
The 27th National Children’s Science Congress 2019 witnessed a cultural extravaganza in the evenings on all days from 27 to 30 December 2019. The delegates from different parts of the country watched in awe, a fusion drama showcasing the cultural diversity of the state of Kerala. The programme was a beautiful blend of the scientific temper and ethnic riches of the country. It was followed by performances of students from the participating states.
Valedictory Function
The valedictory function of the 27th National Children’s Science Congress was held on 31 December 2019. The Chief Guest for the session was Shri. M. C. Dathan, Scientific Advisor to the Chief Minister of Kerala. The Felicitation speech was delivered by Dr. T. M. George, Principal, Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology. A memento was presented to Prof. K. P. Sudheer, Principal Secretary, KSCSTE by Rev. Fr. John Vilayil, Bursar, Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology.
The focal theme for the next year was announced by Shri. Sujit Banerjee, Director, Department of Science and Technology (DST). The medals and mementos were also distributed to the various participating states.
The Daily Newsletters can be seen below:
27 December 2019, click
here
.
28 December 2019, click
here
.
29 December 2019, click
here
.
30 December 2019, click
here
.
31 December 2019, click
here
.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exam Notifications
New
M.Tech Admissions 2025
New
B. Tech Admissions 2025
New
MBCET e-bulletin
New