IQAC – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
The UGC has conferred Autonomous status in July 2020,Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Degree awarded by KTU.
||"Ph. D Admissions Open"||
||"B.Tech admissions 2025 Rank List published"||
Home
>
IQAC
INTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCE CELL (IQAC)
VISION
Excellence in the quality of academics and research.
MISSION
To encourage the stakeholders to imbibe and interweave quality in academics and research.
To undertake concurrent audit and internal/peer evaluation of the processes and the outcomes.
To promote the values of inclusivity, independence, self-evaluation, accountability, and innovations from the quality perspective for individual, peer and institution.
To arrange for accreditation by national and international accreditation bodies.
To collaborate with other institutions in the pursuit of institutional quality benchmarking and quality consciousness.
Objective of IQAC:
The prime task of the IQAC is to seamlessly work for developing a system for conscious, consistent and catalytic improvement in the overall performance of the academic institutions by enabling quality improvement in both the domains of academics and administration.
IQAC acts as an internal mechanism for sustenance, assurance and enhancement of the quality culture. For this, during the post accreditation period, it will channelize all efforts and measures of the institution towards promoting its holistic academic excellence.
Templates :
Clickhere
(To Login)
Strategies:
IQAC shall, through an egalitarian approach, evolve the formal mechanisms and procedures for:
Ensuring timely, efficient and progressive performance of academic, administrative and financial tasks.
Optimization and integration of modern methods of teaching, learning and evaluation.
Ensuring the adequacy, maintenance and functioning of the support structure.
The functions of IQAC are:
Planning, guiding and monitoring of Quality Assurance (QA) and Quality Enhancement (QE) activities of the Higher Education Institutions(HEI)
Development of Quality Culture in HEI
Preparation of the Annual Quality Assurance Report (AQAR) of the HEI based on the quality parameters / assessment criteria developed by the relevant quality assurance body (like NAAC) in the prescribed format
Channelize and systematize the efforts and measures of an institution towards academic excellence
Development and application of quality benchmarks/parameters for various academic and administrative activities of the institution
Arrangement for feedback response from students, parents and other stakeholders on quality-related institutional processes and its follow up
Dissemination of information on various quality parameters of higher education
Acting as a nodal agency of the Institution for coordinating quality-related activities, including adoption and dissemination of best practices
Development and maintenance of institutional database ( Data centre) through MIS for the purpose of maintaining/enhancing the institutional quality by documenting various programmes/activities leading to quality improvement
Periodical conduct of Academic and Administrative Audit and its follow-up
Facilitating the creation of a learner-centered environment conducive for imparting quality education and faculty maturation to adopt the required knowledge and technology for participatory teaching and learning process to remain at the cutting edge of science and technology.
Organization of inter and intra institutional workshops, seminars on quality related themes and promotion of quality circles
Organizing orientation programmes for Staff and Administrative Staff in association with Teaching learning centre
Rendering feedback to the functionalities for enabling the changes and improvements.
Outcomes of IQAC Activities
Strategic Plan and Organizational Planning
Accreditation – NAAC, NBA
National Ranking – NIRF, ARIIA
AICTE Approval for professional courses
UGC Graded autonomy reports
Media Rankings
Feedback from stakeholders and Action Taken Reports
Academic and Administrative Audits
Promotion of Technology Enhanced Learning
Annual Quality Assurance Report
Workshops/Seminars on Academic Quality and Quality Assurance measures
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exam Notifications
New
M.Tech Admissions 2025
New
B. Tech Admissions 2025
New
MBCET e-bulletin
New