Department Advisory Board – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
Home
>
Departments
>
Electrical and Electronics Engineering
>
Department Advisory Board
Department Advisory Board
The Departmental Advisory Board (DAB) has been framed with the objective of remaining up to date with the latest requirements of the industry and incorporating necessary components in the curriculum as much as possible. The committee develops and recommends new or revised goals and objectives of the programme. The committee also reviews and analyzes the gap between curriculum and Industry requirements and gives necessary feedback or advice actions. The DAB is composed of members from eminent institutions as well as members from industry, alumni and members of faculty of the department. The present composition of the DAB is as follows.
Department Advisory Board Members 2024-25
Bijuna Kunju K, Professor, TKMCE (Academia Representative)
Jayan P P , Scientist E, Power Electronics Group, C-DAC (Industry Representative)
Asa T V, Assistant Executive Engineer KSEB (Parent Representative)
Baiju Udayabhanu Executive Director and Sr. VP, Software Development at zLink (Parent Representative)
Vishnu M Nair, R&D Engineer, Siemens Energy (Alumni Representative)
Elizabeth Varghese, Associate Professor and HOD, EED
Surasmi N L, Assistant Professor, EED (DAB Coordinator)
Invited Members
Manju Sreekumar, Assistant Professor & AHoD, EED
Shalu George, NAAC Coordinator & BOS Secretary, EED
C Sojy Rajan, NBA Coordinator, EED
2023-24
Dr. Bijuna Kunju K., Professor, TKMCE. (Academia Representative)
Mr. Premsagar B., Dy. GM, HLL Life Care Ltd. (Industry Representative)
Gp. Capt. E P Syam, Additional Director, DRDO, New Delhi. (Parent Representative)
Mr. Suresh Kumar S, Nodal Officer, KSEB. (Parent Representative)
Dr. Nisha G K, Professor and HOD, EED.
Ms. C. Sojy Rajan, Assistant Professor, EED (Alumni Representative)
Ms. Surasmi N L, Assistant Professor, EED (DAB Coordinator)
Vision
To be a Centre of Excellence in Electrical & Electronics Engineering Education, Research and Application of knowledge to benefit the society at large.
Mission
To mould quality Electrical Engineers, fostering creativity and innovation to address global issues.
BoS
Department Advisory Board
The People
Facilities
News and Events
Activities
Conferences
Workshops & Seminars
Research & Consultancy
Placement
B. Tech PEOs, POs & PSOs
Opportunities
Curriculum & Syllabus
Time Table
Video Lectures
Former HODs
Department Google Site