Spandanam – Mar Baselios College of Engineering And Technology
Skip to content
The UGC has conferred Autonomous status in July 2020,Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Degree awarded by KTU.
||"Ph. D Admissions Open"||
||"B.Tech admissions 2025 Rank List published"||
Home
>
Outreach
>
Spandanam
Spandanam
Social Serive Organisation of Department of Electronics and Communications Engineering (SPANDANAM)
Spandanam, the social service wing of the ECE department, conducted an activity on the occasion of school reopening and distributed school bags (16 in number) to the children of our housekeeping staff on 30th May 2025.
The Spandanam social service initiative of the ECE department extended financial support to Salini, a cancer patient from Chenkottukonam, to aid her medical treatment on February 7th, 2025.
As part of the Spandanam (Social Service wing of Dept. of ECE, MBCET) activity,spandanam student members, along with teachers, visited Assisi Niketan Old-Age Home, Sreekaryam on 14th October 2024. Heartfelt interactions filled with stories and laughter brought joy to residents. The team sponsored lunch, spreading love and warmth.
The Spandanam team from the ECE department visited the family of a bedridden patient residing near Parottukonam and donated an amount to support their medical needs.
Faculty members:Dr. MJ Jayashree, Ms Teena Rajan, Mr. Jinu Baby and Ms. Merin Philip
Student members : Aleena Maria Sam, Deepak G Thomas, Ann Mary Biju
The Spandanam, social service wing of the ECE department, distributed school bags to the children of the housekeeping staff on May 29, 2024.
As part of the Spandanam (Social Service wing of Dept. of ECE, MBCET) activity donated 107 food kits at RCC, Trivandrum in collaboration with NSS unit on 1st March 2024.
As part of the Spandanam (Social Service wing of Dept. of ECE, MBCET) activity, hosted a vital blood donation camp, showcasing the collective effort of the college community towards a noble cause in collaboration  with E-nix,Sree Chithra Thirunal Institute of Medical Science and Technology, Phoenix MBCET, and Illumina MBCET on 30 November 2023 at our college.
As part of the Spandanam (Social Service wing of Dept. of ECE, MBCET) activity, monetary support was given to  a needy patient who undergoes dialysis twice a week in Powdikonam,Thiruvananthapuram on 11th October 2023.
As part of the Spandanam (Social Service wing of Dept. of ECE, MBCET) activity, Onam kits sponsored by S6 EC students were distributed to the supporting staff of our college on 23 August 2023.
As part of Spandanam (Social Service wing of Dept. of ECE, MBCET) activity, 25 school bags were distributed to the needy students residing in Pazhakutty Lakshamveedu colony near Nedumangad, on 01 June 2023.
As part of Spandanam (Social Service wing of Dept. of ECE, MBCET) activity, a mobile phone was donated to kumari. Siva Ganga, Priya Nivas, Punchakkari, Thiruvalla who is a nursing student in Good Shepherd College on 12
th
November 2022.
The Social Service Wing of the Department of Electronics and Communication has been christened “Spandanam”.
As part of the spandanam activity, bags were distributed to the needy children, at Sacred Heart Malankara Catholic Church, Kallayam, on 31 July 2022.
Faculty representatives (
Dr. M.J. Jayashree
,
Ms. Teena Rajan
,
Ms. Anu Susan Philip
,
Ms. Salga Ann Jacob
, and student representatives (
Joshin Samuel
and
Jobin J.,
S8 EC2)  from the department of ECE, distributed  school bags, umbrellas and instrument boxes to the children,  at Pappala near Kilimanoor, on 21 May 2022.
As part of the SPANDANAM (Social service wing of Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering) activity, the team comprising
Dr. M.J. Jayashree
, Prof., Dept. of ECE, along with
Sri. D. Joykutty
, Sr. Office Assistant, distributed food to the needy patients and their bystanders at Thiruvananthapuram Govt. Medical College, on 14 March, 2022, at 5 pm.
Faculty from the department of ECE contributed towards donating lungis and towels, to the inmates of ‘Sneha Veedu’ near Nalanchira, on 23 December 2021.
As part of the
SPANDANAM
activity, faculty from the Department of ECE contributed towards donating 2 normal wheelchairs and one commode wheelchair, to MIND (Mobility In Dystrophy) Trust. MIND Trust formed in 2017 is a non-governmental organisation working to promote and raise awareness in the areas of education, employment opportunities, and rehabilitation of individuals with physical disabilities, such as muscular dystrophy and spinal muscular atrophy (SMA).
As part of the SPANDANAM activity, faculty representatives from the Department of ECE (
Ms. Teena Rajan
,
Ms. Luxy Mathews
and
Mr. Anoop K. Johnson
) visited the Central Institute on Mental Retardation (CIMR – A national Level NGO in India), Murinjapalam, Trivandrum, on 19
th
February 2021 and handed over stationary items and  toys, to facilitate the teaching – learning process in CIMR.
In association with Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) cell, MBCET, SPANDANAM distributed masks and sanitizers to the students of Government Boys High School, Kanniakulangara, on 6
th
January 2021.
As part of the SPANDANAM activity, student representatives from S3 EC2 (
Alenso Rooby
and
Aswen A.M.
),
Ms. Teena Rajan
, and
Mr. Anoop K. Johnson
, Assistant Professors in the department of ECE, visited Mrs. Radha’s house at Nalanchira on 18
th
December 2020. She belongs to a poor family and is suffering from acute diabetes.  Rs. 5000 has been donated for her treatment purpose.
On 3
rd
October 2020, SPANDANAM took the initiative to provide essential commodity kit to Mr. Shivakumar’s family residing at Thiruvallom. Mr. Shivakumar, the only earning member in the family, met with an accident, and the family was struggling to make ends meet.
A talk by Aswathy Nair, Founder of Jwala Foundation, an NGO that provides food and shelter for the needy had been organised on 6 March 2020 for ECE students.
Staff members and students visited the Shalom Special School for mentally challenged situated in the village of Vembayam, Kaniyapuram block, Thiruvananthapuram district on 23 November 2019. The team spent half day with the inmates of the school, engaging them with entertainment programs and interactive games.
Spandanam team, in association with UBA (Unnath Bharat Abhiyan) cell visited St. John’s Medical Village, Pirappancode, on 2 October 2019. They took surveys on education, health sanitation, electricity, etc, and elucidated why plastic eradication is the need of the hour.
Staff members and students visited Snehabhavan near Kattakada on 19 January 2019 and handed over few immediate requirements for the inmates.
Staff members of ECE department purchased and distributed onam kits for around 12 needy families in and around Kilimanoor, Trivandrum. The kits were distributed on August 18
th
, 2018 by the staff members of the department.
Spandanam organized a collection drive for the flood affected under the #DoforKerala campaign. The staff and students of the Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering pooled in flood relief materials worth Rs. 25000/- and gave it to the collection centre at B-hub, Mar Ivanios Vidya Nagar, Trivandrum which was then transported to the collection centre under the District Administration.
Staff members of ECE department collected and handed over an amount to the Devaki Warrier Memorial Women’s Studies & Empowerment entre, where free accommodation and food was provided for cancer patients on February 18th, 2018.
Dr. Bipin T. Varghese, Surgeon, Regional Cancer Centre rendered a talk on cancer awareness on 31st January 2018.
Students of S6 EC1 sponsored a one day meal for the inmates of Kerala State Council for Child Welfare on 23rd December 2017.
Faculty and students of EC department joined the community outreach program for the welfare of children at Poonthura, a rural coastal area in Trivandrum organized by Worldvision along with MBCET on 18th February 2017.
Spandanam members distributed meals at Medical college with the help of Mr. D. Joykutty.
Faculty and students of EC Department visited the inmates of “Unity House” and took classes on various subjects like Physics, Chemistry, History, Maths etc. on 24
th
August 2016.
Faculty and students of EC department visited the inmates of “Unity House” and took classes on jewellery making and handicrafts on 28 August 2016.
Faculty of ECE Dept. visited the inmates of “Snehaveedu” and distributed House hold items on May, 2016. This was organized by the department social service wing Spandanam.
Spandanam members visited families at Karette and donated Onam kits to the families in September 2016.
The staff of EC department visited the inmates of Unity House, Chittazha on May 30, 2015 and Ananthashayi Balasadanam, Trivandrum on August 21st 2015.
Faculty and students of EC department joined the community outreach program for the welfare of children at Poonthura, a rural coastal area in Trivandrum organized by Worldvision along with MBCET on 18th February 2017.
Spandanam members distributed meals at Medical college with the help of Sri. D. Joykutty.
Spandanam members visited families at Karette and donated Onam kits to the families in September 2016.
Faculty and students of EC department visited the inmates of “Unity House” and took classes on jewellery making and handicrafts on 28th August 2016.
Faculty and students of EC Department visited the inmates of “Unity House” and took classes on various subjects like Physics, Chemistry, History, Maths etc. on 24th August 2016.
NSS
UBA
AARDRAM
Chirag
Spandanam
SPARSHAM
Thanal
Karuthal
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exam Notifications
New
M.Tech Admissions 2025
New
B. Tech Admissions 2025
New
MBCET e-bulletin
New